So, are there really three hours of
questions or or has are you [__]
serious?
>> Yeah. [laughter]
You don't even talk about Elon, man.
>> I mean, it's the most interesting point.
All the story lines are kind of
converging. Yeah.
>> Right now, so we'll see how much
>> almost like I planned it.
>> Exactly. Well, we'll get
>> I would never do such a thing.
[laughter]
So, as you know better than anybody
else, uh the total cost of ownership of
a data center, only 10 to 15% is energy.
And that's the part you're presumably
saving by moving this into space. Most
of it's the GPUs. If they're in space,
it's harder to service them or you can't
service them. And so, the depreciation
cycle goes down on them. So, like it's
just way more expensive to have the GPUs
in space presumably. What's the reason
to put them in space?
>> Um well, the availability of energy is
the issue. Um so uh I mean if you look
at at electrical output um outside of
China everywhere outside of China it's
more or less flat. It's very you know
maybe a slight increase but for pretty
close flat. China has a rapid increase
in in electrical output. But if you're
putting data centers anywhere except
China where you going to get your
electricity um especially as you scale
uh the output of chips is growing um
pretty much exponentially but the output
of electricity is flat. So how are you
going to turn them chips on? um you know
>> magical power sources, magical
electricity fairies.
>> You mean you're famously [laughter]
you're famously a big fan of solar one
terowatt of solar power. So with a 25%
compat factor like four terowatts of
solar panels it's like 1% of the land
area of the United States and that's
like far in this you were in the
singularity when we've got one terowatt
of data centers right um so what are we
running out of
>> how far into the singularity are you
though [laughter]
>> you tell me
>> yeah exactly so so I think I think we
we'll find we're in the singularity and
like okay we still got a long way to go
[laughter]
>> but is this like a is the plan to like
put it in the space after we've covered
Nevada and solar panels
>> I think it's pretty hard to cover Nevada
in solar panels you get permits from
like the permits for try getting the
permits for that.
>> So space is really a reg it's really a
regulatory play. It's like harder to
harder to build on land than it is in
space.
>> It's it's harder to scale um on the
ground than it is to scale in space. Um
but but also the the you're going to get
about five times the um effectiveness of
solar panels in space versus the ground.
And you don't need batteries. Um I
almost wore my other shirt which says
it's always sunny in space which it is.
[laughter]
So um because you don't have a dayight
cycle or uh seasonality uh clouds uh or
or an atmosphere in space uh because the
atmosphere alone um uh results in about
a 30% uh loss of energy. Um so uh so
you're going for any given uh solar
panels can do about five times more uh
power in space than on the ground and
you avoid the cost of having batteries
to carry you through the night.
Um so it's it's actually much cheaper to
do it in space and I I my prediction is
that
um it will be by far the cheapest place
to put uh AI will be space in 36 months
or less maybe 30 months.
>> 36 months
>> less than 36 months. Um, how do you
service GPUs as they fail, which happens
quite often in training?
>> Actually, it it it depends on how how
recent the GPUs are that arrived. I
mean, at this point, we found our GPUs
to be quite reliable. Um, there's infant
mortality, which you can obviously iron
out on the ground.
>> Um, so you can just run them on the
ground um and confirm that you don't
have info mortality with with the GPUs.
But once they once they start working,
their actual reliability and and once
they start working and you're past the
initial, you know, debug cycle of Nvidia
or whatever or whoever is making the
chips, um could be Tesla Tesla AI 6
chips or something like that or it could
be, you know, TPUs or trains or
whatever. Um the uh the rival is
actually they're quite reliable past
certain point. Um so um I I don't think
I don't think you need that the
servicing thing is an issue. Um um but
you can mark my words. Uh in in 36
months but probably closer to 30 months
the the most economically compelling
place to put AI will be space. Um and
then and and and then it will get from
it'll it'll then get like ridiculously
better to be in space. Um and then this
the scaling uh the only place you can
really scale is space. Um you know once
you start thinking in terms of uh what
percentage of the sun's power are you
harnessing uh you realize you have to go
to space uh you can't uh scale very very
much on earth
>> but by very much to be clear you're
talking like terowatts.
>> Yeah. Well all of the United States uh
currently uses only half a terowatt of
power on average.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, you know, if you say a
terowatt, that would be twice as much
electricity as the United States
currently consumes. So, that's quite a
lot. And can you imagine building that
many data centers? I that many power
plants. It's like those who have like
lived in software land uh don't realize
they're about to have a a hard lesson in
hardware.
uh that um there's there's it's actually
very difficult to build power plants and
and then you don't just need the you
need power plants, you need all of the
electrical equipment, you need the the
electrical transformers to run the
transformers, the AI transformers. Um
now the utility industry is a very slow
industry that they are they they pretty
much uh you know they impedance match to
the to the government to the the public
utility commission. Um so they're uh the
impedance smash like literally
figuratively. Um so they're very slow
because the their past has been very
slow. Um so trying to get them to move
fast is like you know like if you try to
do an interconnect agreement with have
you ever tried to do an internet
interconnect agreement with a utility at
scale like with a lot of power
>> as a professional podcaster I can say
that I have not in fact [laughter]
>> yeah they have to you need many more
views before that becomes an issue.
>> They have to do a study for a year.
Okay. at like a year later they'll come
back to you with their interconnect
study.
>> But can't you solve this with your own
behind the meter power stuff
>> you can build power plants.
>> Yeah,
>> that's what we did at XAI for classes 2.
So for for classes too
>> but so yeah why are we talking about the
grid? Why not just like build GPUs and
power colloccated?
>> That's what we did.
>> Right. Right. But I'm saying why isn't
this a generalized solution when you're
talking about all the issues?
>> Where do you get the power plants from?
>> I'm saying when you're talking about all
the issues working working with
utilities, you can just build private
power plants with the with the data
centers.
>> Right. But it begs the question of where
do you get the power plants? Where do
you where do you get the power plants
from?
>> I mean the power plant makers.
>> Oh, that's what you're saying. Like
there's the gas turbine backlog
basically.
>> Yes. It you can drill down to a level
further. It's the it's the the veins and
blades in the turbines um that are the
limiting factor because the the casting
may it's it's like a very specialized
process to cast the blades and veins in
the in the in the uh turbines using gas
power. Um and uh it's very it's very
difficult to scale other other forms of
power. You can scale potentially uh
solar but but the the tariffs currently
for importing solar in the US are
gigantic and the domestic solar
production is is pitiful.
>> Why not make solar? That seems like a
good Elon shaped problem.
>> We are going to make solar.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Great. [laughter]
>> Both SpaceX and Tesla are are building
towards 100 gawatt of solar cell
production. How low down the stack like
from poly silicon up to the wafer to the
final um panel?
>> I think you got to do the whole thing
from raw materials to to to finish the
cell. Now, if it's going to space, it's
actually it costs it costs less and it's
easier to make solar cells that go to
space because they don't need glass or
they don't need much glass and they
don't need uh heavy framing because they
don't have to surv survive weather
events. There's no weather in space. So
is actually a cheaper solar cell that
goes to space than than is than the one
on the ground.
>> Is there a path to getting them as cheap
as you need in the next 36 months?
>> Solar cells are already very cheap. Um
they're like far sickly cheap. It's um
and if you say um you know I I think
like solar cells in China are around
like 2530 cents a watt or something like
that. It's it's absurdly cheap. And when
you when you take into account now now
put now put it in space and it's five
times cheaper because it's five times in
fact no it's not five times cheaper it's
10 times cheaper because you don't need
any batteries.
So so the moment your cost of access to
space uh becomes low by far the cheapest
and most scalable way to generate to to
to generate tokens is space. It's not
even close.
it'll be an order of magnitude uh easier
to scale. Um and chips aside an order of
magnitude well if the point is you won't
be able to scale on the ground. It's
just you just won't. People are going to
hit the wall big time on power
generation. They already are. Um like so
so like the number of um sort of
miracles and series that the XAI team
had to accomplish in order to get a
gigawatt of power online uh was was was
crazy. We had to um gang together a
whole bunch of turbines um and uh and
then and then we had permit issues in um
Tennessee and and had to go across the
border to Mississippi, which is
fortunately only, you know, a few miles
away. Uh so, but then we still had to
run the high power lines a few miles and
and build a power plant in Mississippi.
Um and and it was very difficult to
build that. Um, and people don't
understand like how much how much
electricity do you actually need at the
generator level at the generation level
in order to power a data center because
they look at the the
noobs will look at the the the power
consumption of uh say a GB300 and and
multiply that by thing and then think
that's the amount amount of power you
need
>> all the cooling and everything.
>> Wake up. Yeah. This is like that's a
that's a that's a total noob. you've
never done any hardware in your life
before.
Besides the GB300, you got to power all
of the networking hardware. Um there's a
whole bunch of CPU and storage stuff
that's happening. Uh you you've got a
size for uh your your peak uh cooling
requirements. So that means uh can you
cool even on the the worst hours, the
worst day of the year? Well, it gets
pretty freaking hot in Memphis. So, so
you're going to have like a 40% increase
on your your power just for cooling. Um,
if assuming you don't want your data
center to turn off on hot days and and
want to keep going, then then you got to
say, well, uh, um, there's there's
another multiplicative element on top of
that, which is, are you assuming that
you're you you never have any hiccups in
your power generation? Like, oh, well,
actually, sometimes we have to take the
generators, some of the power offline in
order to service it. Oh, okay. Now you
add another 20 25% multiplier on that
because you you've got to you've got to
assume that that you've got to take
power offline to service it. Uh so the
actual
RS for roughly every every 110,000 GBs
GB300's inclusive of networking uh CPU
storage cooling uh margin for for for uh
servicing power uh is roughly uh 300
megawatt. Sorry, say that again.
>> It's it's it's roughly or think about it
like the way you think about this like
330,000
to to to actually what you need at the
gener generation level to service
probably service 330,000 GB300s
including all of the associated support
networking and everything else and the
and and the peak cooling and to have
some margin some power margin reserve is
roughly a gawatt.
>> Can I ask a very naive question? Yeah.
Um uh you know you're describing the
engineering details of doing this stuff
on Earth. Um but then there's analogous
engineering difficulties of doing it in
space. How do you do the um uh how do
you replace infinite band with orbital
lasers etc etc. How do you make it
resistant to radiation? Um I don't know
the details in the engineering but
fundamentally what is the reason to
think those challenges which have never
been had to be addressed before will end
up being easier than just like building
more turbines on Earth. There's
companies that build turbines on Earth.
They can make more turbines, right?
>> I invite again try doing it and then
you'll see. Um so um
like the turbines are sold out through
2030.
>> Have you guys considered making your
own? I think in in order for in order to
uh bring enough power online um I think
uh SpaceX and and Tesla will probably
have to make the turbine blades um the
mains and blades uh internally
>> for just the blades or the turbines.
>> Uh uh the the the the limiting factor
you can get everything except the the
blades they call the blades and veins.
Um you can get that uh 12 to 18 months
before the veins of blades. The limiting
factor veins and blades and there are
only uh three casting uh companies in
the world that make make these and
they're massively backlogged.
>> Is this Seaman's GE those guys or is it
a sub?
>> No, it's it's it's it's other companies.
I mean, sometimes they have a little bit
of casting capability in house, but uh
I'm just saying you can just you can
just call any of the turbine makers and
they will tell you. It's not top secret.
They probably on the it's probably on
the internet right now.
>> If if it wasn't for the tariffs, would
uh would Colossus be solar powered?
>> Uh it would be much easier to make it
solar powered. Yeah. Um the tariffs are
nuts. Several hundred%. So
>> don't you know some people
>> we we also need speed. Yeah. you know,
[laughter]
you know, um, president has,
you know, we don't agree on everything.
Um, and, um, this administration is not
not the biggest fan of of solar.
>> Um, [laughter]
but you
>> and you also need the land, the permits
and everything. So, if you're trying to
move very fast,
>> um like I do think scaling solar on
Earth is a is a good way to go,
>> but but you need you do need some amount
of time to find the land, get the
permits, get the solar, uh pair that
with the batteries.
>> But why would it not work to stand up
your own solar production and then
you're right that you eventually run out
of land, but there's a lot of land here
in Texas. There's a lot of land in
Nevada, including private land. It's not
all publicly owned land. And so you'd be
able to at least get the next Colossus
and like the next one after that and at
a certain point you hit a wall. But
wouldn't that work for the moment?
>> As I said, we are scaling solar
production. Um there's there's a rate
there's a rate at which you can scale
physical production of solar solar
cells. We we're going as fast as
possible in scaling domestic production.
>> You're making the solar cells at Tesla.
Both Tesla and SpaceX um have a mandate
to get to 100 gawatt a year of of solar.
>> Speaking of the annual capacity, I'm
curious in 5 years time, let's say, what
will the installed capacity be on Earth?
>> Long time and in space. Yeah, I
deliberately picked five years cuz it's
after your once we're up and running
threshold. And so in five years time,
yeah, what's the on earth versus in
space installed AI capacity? five years
I think probably
if you say 5 years from now we're
probably um
AI in space will be uh launching every
year the the sum total of all AI on
earth in excess meaning 5 years from now
my prediction is we will launch and and
and be operating
every year more AI in space than than
this than the cumulative sort of total
on earth which is I would expect to be
at least sort of 5 years from now a few
hundred gawatts per year
of uh of AI in space
>> and rising. Um so you can get to I think
you on Earth you can get to around a
terowatt a year of of AI in space um
before you start having you know fuel
supply challenges for the rocket.
>> Okay. You think you can get to hundreds
of gigawatts per year in 5 years time?
>> Yes.
>> So 100 gawatt depending on the um
specific power of the whole system with
solar arrays and radiators and
everything is um is on the order of like
10,000 Starship launches.
>> Yes.
>> Um and you want to do that in one year.
And so that's like one Starship launch
every hour.
>> Yeah.
>> That's happening in this city. Like walk
me through a world where there's 10
there's a Starship launch every single
hour.
>> Yeah. I mean that's actually a lower
rate compared to airlines. Uh like like
aircraft aircraft
>> there's a lot of airports
>> a lot of airports but
>> and you got to launch you know the polar
orbit.
>> Uh no it doesn't have to be polar but
you you just there's there's some some
value to sunsynchronous but um but I I
think actually um you just go high
enough you you start getting out of
earth shadow you know. So, um,
>> how many physical Starships are needed
to do 10,000 launches a year?
>> I I don't think we'll need more than I
mean, you you could you could uh
probably do it with
as as few as like 20 or 30. Um,
>> like it really depends on how quickly
does a ship the ship has to go around
the Earth. Um, and the ground track for
for the ship has to come back over the
launch pad. So, if you can use a ship
every say 30 hours, uh you could do it
with 30 ships, but but we'll we'll make
more ships than that. But, um but but
SpaceX is is um is going up to do 10,000
launches a year and I'll and and maybe
even 20 or 30,000 launches a year.
>> Is the idea to become basically a
hyperscaler, become an oracle and lend
this capacity to other people? What's
what are you going to do with presumably
SpaceX is the one launching all this?
So SpaceX is going to hyperscaler
>> hyper hyper. [laughter]
>> Yeah. I mean if ass if assuming my
predictions come true SpaceX will launch
more AI than the cumulative amount on
Earth combi of everything else combined.
>> Is this mostly inference or
>> most AI will be inference like already
inference for the purpose of training is
most training. And there's a narrative
that the
the change in discussion around a SpaceX
IPO is because previously SpaceX was
very capital efficient. Just it wasn't
that expensive to develop that. Even
though it sounds expensive, it's
actually very capital efficient in how
it runs. Whereas now you're going to
need more capital than just can be
raised in the private markets. Like if
the private markets can accommodate
raises of, as we've seen from the AI
labs, tens of billions of dollars, but
not beyond that, is it that you'll just
need more than tens of billions of
dollars per year and that's about to
take it public?
>> Um, yeah. I have to be careful about
saying things about companies that might
go public. Um, you know,
>> if you make general state, [laughter] if
you make
>> that's never been a problem for you,
Elon,
>> you know, there's a price to pay for
these things.
make some general statements for us
about the depth of the capital markets
between public and private markets.
>> Yeah, there's there's a lot more capital
in the
>> very general [laughter]
>> there's there's obviously a lot more
capital available in the public markets
than private. I mean it might be
it's at least at least it might be 100
times more capital but it's at least
well way more than 10. But isn't it also
the case that things that tend to be
very um capital intensive if you look at
say real estate as you know a huge
industry uh that raises a lot of money
each years at an industry level that
tends to be debt financed because by the
time you're deploying that much money
you actually have a pretty
>> you have a clear revenue stream.
>> Exactly. And and a near-term return. And
you see this even with the data center
buildouts which are famously being you
know uh financed by the uh the private
credit industry. And so why not just
debt finance?
Um speed is important. So
um I'm genally going to do the thing
that um I'm I'm I mean I just repeatedly
tack the limiting factor. Whatever the
limiting factor is on speed, I'm I'm
going to tackle that. So um there's uh
if if capital is the limiting factor
then I'll I'll sold for capital. If if
it's not limiting factor I'll s for
something else.
>> U based on your statements about um
Tesla and being public. I wouldn't have
guessed that you thought the fast the
way to move fast is to be public.
>> Normally I would say yeah that's that's
true. Um, like I said, I mean, I'd love
to, you know, talk about some more in
detail, but the problem is like if you
talk about poly companies before they
become public, you get into trouble and
then you have to delay your offering
>> and then you
>> and as we said, we're solving for speed.
>> Yes. Exactly. So, so, so that you you
can't hype companies um that are that
may that might go public. So, that
that's that's why we have to be a little
careful here. Um, but but but I I I we
can't talk about physics. Um so like the
way the way you think about scaling long
term is that um uh earth only receives
about uh half a billionth of the sun's
energy. Um and the sun is the sun is
essentially all the energy. This is a
very important point to appreciate
because sometimes people will talk about
marginal nuclear reactors or any you
know various like fusion on earth. Um
but but you have to step back a second
and say if if if you're going to climb
the cartes scale and have some
non-trivial and and harness some
non-trivial percentage of the uh the
sun's energy like let's say you wanted
to uh harness a millionth of the sun's
energy which sounds pretty small. um
that that would be um about call it
roughly 100,000 times more electricity
than we currently generate on Earth of
for all of civilization
uh give or take an order of magnitude.
Um so it it obviously the only way to
scale uh is to go to space with solar.
Uh from launching from Earth you can get
to about a terowatt per year. Um beyond
that you want to go you you want to uh
launch from the moon. and you want to
have a a mass driver on the moon. Uh and
that mass driver on the moon, you could
do probably a pedawatt per year.
>> Um when you're talking these kinds of
numbers, you know, terowatts of compute,
um presumably whether you're talking
land or space far before this point, um
you've like run into, you know, you
actually need maybe you don't the solar
panels are more efficient, but you still
need the chips.
>> Uh you still need the logic and the
memory and so forth and need
[clears throat] to build a lot more
chips and make them much cheaper,
>> right? And so how are we getting a
terowatt of uh like right now the world
is going to be 20 25 gawatt of compute?
Um how are we getting a terowatt of
logic by 2030?
>> I guess we're going to need some very
big chip apps.
>> Tell tell me about it. [laughter]
>> I've mentioned publicly that uh the idea
of doing a sort of a a terab tering the
new gig. We I feel like the naming
scheme of Tesla, which has been very um
catchy, is like you looking at like the
metric [laughter]
>> the metric scale. Um at what level of
the stack are you are you building the
clean room and then partnering with an
existing um fab to get the process
technology and buying the tools from
them? What what is the plan there?
>> Well, you can't partner with existing
fabs because uh they just they can't
output enough their chip volume is too
low.
>> But you have you have to
>> before the process technology. Yeah.
Partner for the IP.
>> Um, you know, the the fabs today all
basically use um machines from like five
companies.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, so
you've got ASML, Tokyo, Electron, Kelly,
Tankor, you know, um, etc. So, um, so,
so at first I think you'd have to get
equipment from them and then, uh, modify
it or work with them to increase the
volume. Um, but I think you'd have to
build perhaps in a different way. Um, so
I think the logical thing to do is to,
uh, to use conventional equipment in
unconventional way to get to scale. Uh
and then uh and then and then start
modifying the equipment uh to increase
the the rate
>> kind of boring company style.
>> Yeah. Kind of like Yeah. You you sort of
buy an an existing uh boring machine and
then uh figure out how to dig tunnels in
the first place and then design a much
better machine uh that's you know I
don't know
>> some orders of magnitude faster.
>> Here's a very simple lens. We can
categorize technologies and how hard
they are. And one categorization could
be look at things that China has not
succeeded in doing. And if you look at
Chinese manufacturing,
still behind on leading edge chips and
still behind on uh leading edge turbine
engines and things like that. And so
does the fact that China has not
successfully replicated TSMC give you
any pause about the difficulty or you
think
>> well that's not true for some reason.
>> Uh it's not that they have not
replicated TSMC they have not replicated
ASML that's the limiting factor.
>> So so you think it's just the um the
sanctions essentially.
>> Uh yeah China would be outputting vast
numbers of chips at they could buy
>> but couldn't they up to relatively
recently buy them? No.
>> Okay.
>> That that ASML bands have been in place
for a while.
>> Okay.
>> So, but I I think T's going to be make
start making pretty compelling chips on
three or four years.
>> Would you consider making to ASML
machines?
>> I I don't know. I don't know yet is the
right answer. So I
um it's just that that
if to produce at high volume and to to
to reach large volume in say 36 months
to match the the rocket to payload to
orbit. So if we're doing a million tons
to orbit
um in like let's say I don't know
3 or four years from now something like
that. um that and uh and and we're doing
100 kow per ton. So that that means we
need um at least 100 gawatts per year of
solar. Um and we'll need uh an
equivalent amount of of chips to to you
know that you need 100 gawatt worth of
chips. You you're going to match these
things the master orbit.
>> Yes.
>> The the power generation and the uh and
the and the chips. uh and and and I'd
say my biggest concern actually is is
memory. Um so the I think there's
there's a
the the path to creating logic chips is
more obvious than the path to um having
sufficient memory to support logic
chips. That's why you see your DDR
prices going in and these memes about
like um you know um you're marooned on a
desert island. You write help me on the
sand. Nobody comes. You write DDRM
ships come swarming in. [laughter]
>> I haven't seen that.
>> Uh I love your manufacturing philosophy
around um around fabs. You know I know
nothing about the topic but
>> I don't know how to build a fab yet. I
figure it out. [laughter]
>> But
>> obviously I have difficult.
>> It sounds like you think the the sort of
like the processing knowledge of like
these 10,000 PhDs in Taiwan who know
exactly what gas goes in the plasma
chamber and what settings to put on the
tool. You can just like delete those
parts of those steps. Like fundamentally
it's get the clean room, get the tools
and figure it out. I don't think it's
PhDs that it's it's mostly people with
uh you know who are not not PhDs
um that that most engineering is done
with people who don't have PhDs. Do you
guys have PhDs?
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> We [laughter] also we also haven't
successfully built any fab so you
shouldn't be coming to us for your fab
advice
>> or
>> I don't think you need PhD for that for
the stuff. So um but but you do need you
do need competent personnel. Um so I I
don't I mean like like right now if um
you know say like Tesla's pedals to the
metal max production of going as fast as
possible to get uh AI5 Tesla AI5 chip
design um uh into production and then
reaching scale. Um you know that'll
probably happen you know around the
second quarterish of next year
hopefully. Um
uh and then
AI6 would hopefully follow less than a
year later. Um but um and and and and
we've secured all the all the trip fab
production that we can.
>> Yes. You're currently limited on TSMC
fab capacity.
>> Yeah. Um and and and we'll be using TSMC
uh Taiwan, uh Samsung Korea, TSMC
Arizona, Samsung Texas. Um and we still
booked out all the Yeah.
>> Yes. And and then and then and then if I
ask uh TSMC or Samsung, okay, what
what's the time frame to get to volume
production? The point is not is it's not
you've got to you've got to build the
fab
>> and you got to you got to start
production, then you got to climb the
yield curve and reach volume production
at high yield. that that that from start
finish is a 5year period. And so the
limiting factor is chips.
>> Yeah.
Like limiting factor once you can get to
space is chips, but the limiting
limiting factor before you can get to
space will be power.
>> Why don't you do the Jensen thing and
just prepay TSMC to build more fabs for
you?
>> Uh I I've already told them that.
>> But they won't take your money. Like
what's going on?
>> They're building fabs as fast. No,
[laughter]
>> they're building they're building fabs
as fast as they can.
Um, and so is Samsung. Like like they're
they're pedal to the metal. I mean,
they're going, you know, balls to wall,
you know,
as fast as they can. So, still not fast
enough. I mean, like said, there will be
I think um if you say uh I think towards
the end of this year, I think probably
chip production will outpace the ability
to turn chips on. Uh but once you can
get to space and unlock the um the power
constraint and you can now do you know
hundreds of gigawatts per year of power
in space um again bearing in mind that
average power usage in the US is you
know 500 gaw so if you're launching say
200 gawatt a year to to space you're
sort of lapping the US every two and a
half years the entire all US electricity
production this is a very huge amount um
so Um but but but between now and then
uh the the actually the the constraint
for for for server side compute uh
concentrated compute will be will be
electricity.
My my guess is that we start hitting the
people start getting for where they
can't turn the chips on for for for
large clusters uh towards the end of
this year. They're just the chips are
going to be piling up and and not be
won't be able to be turned on. Now for
edge computers a different story. So if
the if if like for for Tesla the the so
the AI5 chip is going into our Optimus
robot you know optimistic um and and so
if you have an AI edge compute that's
distributed power now the power is
distributed over a large area it's not
concentrated um and if you can charge at
night you can actually um [snorts] uh
use the grid much more effectively
because the the actual peak power
production in the US is over 1,000
gawatt. Uh but the average power usage
because the dayight cycle is 500. So if
you can charge at night, there's an
incremental 500 gaw that you can um
generate you know at night. Um so that
that's why Tesla for edge compute is not
constrained and we can make a lot of
ships uh to make you know very large
number of robots and cars. Uh, but if
you try to concentrate that compute,
you're going to have a lot of trouble
turning it on.
>> What I find remarkable about the SpaceX
business is the end goal is to get to
Mars, but you keep finding ways on the
way there to keep generating incremental
revenue to get to the next stage and the
next stage. So, the Falcon 9 is Starlink
>> and now for Starship, it's going to be
potentially orbital data centers. Um but
like you find these like um you know
sort of infinitely uh elastic sort of
marginal use cases of your like next
rocket and your next rocket and next
scale up.
>> You can see how this might seem like a
simulation to me. [laughter]
>> Well,
>> or am I someone's avatar in a video game
or something because it's like like what
are the odds that all these crazy things
would be happening? I I I mean I mean I
mean rockets and chips and robots and
space solar power and and not to mention
the the mass driver on the moon. I
really want to see that. You can imagine
like some mass driver that's just like
just it's like sending AI solar powered
AI satellites into space like one after
another like these like at at 2 and a
half kilometers per second. you know,
that's uh
and just shooting them into deep space.
That would be a sight to see.
I I I mean, I'd watch that
>> just like a live stream of
>> Yeah. Yeah. Just one after another just
shooting
>> webcam
>> uh AI satellites in deep space, you
know, a billion or 10 billion tons a
year.
>> And sorry, you manufacture the
satellites on the moon. I see. So you
send the raw materials to the moon and
then manufacture them there and then
>> well the the lunar soil is uh I think
it's like 20% solar 20% silicon or
something like that. So so you can get
the silicon from the
>> you can mine the silicon on the moon
refine it um
>> and generate the and create the solar
panels or the solar cells and the
radiators on the moon.
>> Yeah.
>> So um make the radiators out of
aluminum. So there's there's plenty of
silicon and aluminum on the moon to uh
to make the the cells on the and the
radiators. Um, the chips you could send
from Earth because they're pretty light.
Um, but maybe at some point you make
them on the moon, too. I'm just saying
like these are simply
it's kind of like, like I said, it it
does seem like a sort of a a video game
situation where it's difficult but not
impossible to get to the next level.
um like I I I don't see any way that you
could do um you know uh
you know 500 to a,000 terowatts per year
launch from Earth. [snorts]
U
>> I agree [laughter]
>> but you could do that from the moon.
>> Okay, let me tell you how I ended up
using Mercury for my personal banking.
So last year I had the opportunity to
make an investment that I was very
excited about, but it came up a bit last
minute. And so I had to wire over a lot
of money for my personal account very
fast. But my personal bank at the time
wouldn't let me make this wire transfer
online. And I called them a bunch of
times. They just couldn't make it work.
They told me that I'd have to go to the
nearest Inerson branch, which was in
Dallas. And for a moment, I even
considered flying from SF to Dallas to
make this transfer happen last minute.
But then I remembered that Mercury,
which I use for my business banking, had
just started rolling out personal
accounts. So I emailed support with a
quick rundown of the situation. And
within 2 hours, I had successfully wired
the investment from my new personal
Mercury account. Since then, I've moved
over the rest of my personal money from
my previous bank to Mercury, and that's
made a bunch of things, even little
things like setting up auto transfer
rules between my checkings and savings
account, a whole lot better. Visit
mercury.com/personal
to get started. Mercury is a fintech
company, not an FDIC insured bank.
Banking services provided through Choice
Financial Group and column NA members
FDIC. Can can I can I zoom out and ask
about the SpaceX mission? So, I think
you said like we got to get to Mars so
we can make sure that if something
happens to Earth, [snorts] you know,
civilization consciousness, etc.
arrives. Yes.
>> Um,
>> by the time you're sending stuff to
Mars, like Grock is on that ship with
you, right? Right. And so if Grock's
gone Terminator, like the main risk
you're worried about, which is AI, why
doesn't that follow you to Mars?
>> Uh well, I'm not sure AI is the main
risk I'm worried about. I mean, the
important thing is that uh consciousness
uh which
I think arguably most consciousness or
most intelligence certainly
consciousness is more of a debatable
thing. Most intell the vast majority of
intelligence in the future will be um
AI. Um so um you know AI AI will exceed
uh you say like how many what's the how
much how many I don't know pedawatts of
intelligence will be uh silicon versus
biological
and and and basically humans will be a
very tiny percentage of all intelligence
in the future if current trends
continue. Um anyways as as long as like
I think there's
intelligence ideally ideally also which
includes human intelligence and
consciousness propagated into the future
that's a good thing. So you want to take
the set of actions that maximize the
probable uh light cone of of of
consciousness. So just and intelligence
>> just to be clear it's a the mission of
SpaceX is that even if something happens
to the humans the AIs will be on Mars
and like the AI intelligence will
continue the light of our journey.
>> Yeah I mean I'm very prohuman so it's
not I I want to make sure we take sort
of actions that ensure that humans are
along for the ride. You know we're at
least there.
>> Yeah. Um but the I'm just saying the
total amount of intelligence uh like I
think maybe in in five or six years um
AI will exceed the sum of all human
intelligence and then if that continues
at some point human intelligence will be
less than 1% of all intelligence. What
what should our goal be for such a
civilization? Is the idea that a small
minority of humans still have control of
the AIs? Is the idea of some sort of
like just trade but no control? How
should we think about the relationship
between the vast stocks of AI population
versus human population
>> in the long run? I think I I I don't
it's difficult to imagine that if humans
have say 1% of the intelligence of
combined intelligence of artificial
intelligence that that that humans will
be in charge of AI. Um, I think what we
can do is make sure it has um that AI
has values that that are um that that
cause intelligence to be propagated uh
into the universe. Um so the the the
reason for
XI XI's mission is understand the
universe.
So now that's actually very important.
So you say well what things are
necessary to understand the universe?
Well, you have to be curious and you
have to exist.
you can't just can't understand the
universities don't exist. Um so you
actually want to increase the amount of
intelligence uh in the universe increase
the palable lifespan of intelligence the
scope and scale of intelligence. Um I
think actually also as a coral you corly
you have um humanity also uh continuing
to expand because um if you're if you're
curious you're trying to understand the
universe one thing you're trying to
understand is where will humanity go
>> and so I think understand the universe
actually means you would care about uh
propagating humanity into the future um
and uh so so that's that's why I think I
think our mission station is profoundly
important Um I'm not sure to the degree
that Grock adheres to that mission
statement um I I think the future will
be very good.
>> I I want to ask about how to make Grock
adhere to that mission statement. But at
first I want to understand the mission
statement. Um so it's there's it's
there's understanding the universe.
They're spreading intelligence and
they're spreading humans. Um all three
seem like distinct vectors.
>> Okay. Well, I'll tell you why I why I
think they are that that that
understanding the universe encompasses
all of all of those things. Go ahead.
>> Um, you can't have understanding without
I think you can't have understanding
without intelligence and and I think
without consciousness. Um, so you in
order to understand universe, you have
to expand this the the scale and and
probably the scope of of intelligence
different types of intelligence.
>> I guess from a humanentric perspective
like for humans in comparison to
chimpanzees, humans are trying to
understand the universe. They're not
like expanding chimpanzeee footprint or
something, right?
>> We're also we're also not well we're not
we actually have made protected zones
for chimpanzees. Um and even though we
could humans could exterminate all
chimpanzees, we've not we've chosen not
to do so.
>> Do you think that's a basic scenario for
humans in the post AGI world?
>> Um
I I I think uh I think AI with the right
values I think Grock would care about
expanding uh human civilization. I'm
gonna certainly emphasize that. Hey,
Gragas, your daddy.
Don't forget to expand human
consciousness. Uh like I I actually I
think if if probably like uh like the
Yan Banks culture books are the closest
thing to what what the future will be
like in a you know non-dystopian
outcome. Um so I so understand the
universe it means you have to be very
you have to be truth seeking as well.
You like truth has to be absolutely
fundamental because you can't understand
the universe if you live if you're
delusional. You you'll simply think you
understand understood the universe but
you will not. So so being rigorously
truth seeeking is is absolutely
fundamental to understanding the
universe. You're not going to discover
new physics or or invent technologies
that work um unless you're rigorously
truth seeeking. How do you make sure
that Grock is regressively truth
seeeking as it gets smarter?
>> Uh
I think you you need to make sure that
that that Grock um is says things that
are correct not politically correct. I
think it's the elements of cogency. So
you want to make sure that that the
axioms are as close to true as possible
that that you don't have contradictory
axioms. um that the um the conclusions
necessary necessarily follow from those
axioms with with the right probability.
It it's just it's just it's critical
thinking 101.
I I think at least trying to do that is
better than not trying to do that.
>> Yeah.
>> And the proof will be in the pudding. If
if like I said for any AI to discover
new physics or invent technologies that
actually work in reality and there's no
bullshitting physics. So it's like you
can you know you can um you can break a
lot of laws but you can't like your
physics is law everything else is is a
recommendation
like in order to make a technology that
works you have to be extremely truth
seeeking because otherwise you'll test
that technology against reality um and
if you make for example an an error in
your rocket design the rug will blow up
um or the car won't work or the you know
>> but but there there are a lot of um
communist Soviet physicists who or like
scientists discovered new physics. There
are German Nazi physicists who
discovered new uh science. Um it seems
possible to be like really good at
discovering new science and be really
truth seeeking in that one particular
way. And still we'd be like well I don't
want I don't want the communist
scientist to like become more and more
powerful over time. Um and so those seem
like yeah we could have we can imagine a
future version of gra that's like really
good at physics um and being really
truth seeking there that doesn't seem
like a universally uh alignment inducing
behavior.
>> Well I think actually most uh like if
physicists
even in the Soviet Union or or in
Germany would have would have they had
to be very truth seeeking in order to um
make make that make those things work.
Um and so and if you're stuck in some
system it doesn't mean you believe in
that system. Um so Von Brown uh who was
you know one of the greatest rocket
engineers ever um you know he he was put
he he was uh he put on death row in in
Nazi Germany for saying that he didn't
want to make weapons he only wanted to
go to the moon.
he got pulled off death throw it at like
last minute when they say hey you're
about to execute like your best rocket
engineer maybe that's
>> then you help them right or Heisenberg
was like actually a um uh an
enthusiastic Nazi
>> look if you're stuck in some system uh
that you can't escape uh then that
you'll you'll do physics within that
system you you'll you'll develop
technologies within that system uh
if you can't escape it I I guess the
thing I'm trying to understand is what
is what isn't making it the case that
you know you're going make rock good at
being truth seeeking at physics or math
or science
>> and why is it going to then care about
human consciousness?
>> These things are only probabilities.
They're not certainties. So I'm not
saying that like for sure Grock will
will will do everything. But at least if
you try uh it's better than not trying.
Um at least if that's fundamental to the
mission, it's better than if it's not
fundamental to the mission.
>> [snorts]
>> Um and understanding the universe means
that uh you you have to have you you
have to propagate intelligence into the
future. You have to be curious about um
the all things the universe. And if if
um it it would be much less interesting
um to eliminate humanity than to see
humanity grow and prosper.
Like I I like I like Mars. Obviously
everyone knows I I love Mars, but Mars
is kind of boring because it's got a
bunch of rocks uh compared to Earth.
Earth is much more interesting. So um so
any any AI any any AI that is trying to
understand the universe um I think um
would uh want to see how humanity
develops in the future or or that AI is
not adhering to its mission.
So if the AI may I'm not saying the AI
will necessarily adhere to its mission
but if it does uh a future where it sees
the outcome of humanity is more
interesting than a future where there
are a bunch of rocks.
This feels sort of confusing to me or
sort of like kind of a semantic uh
argument where I'm like are humans
really the most interesting collection
of atoms? Like
>> we're just more but we're more
interesting than rocks.
>> But we're not as interesting as the
thing it could turn us into, right? Like
is is it there's something on human
earth that could happen that's like not
human that's quite interesting? Like why
why does the decide that the humans are
the most interesting thing that could
colonize the galaxy?
>> Uh well most of what colonizes the
galaxy will be robots
>> and why does it not find those more
interesting?
>> It it's it's it's not like so you you
need not just scale but also scope. Um
so many copies of the same robot. Um
like like some some like tiny increase
in the number of robots produced is not
as interesting as like some microscopic
like you say like eliminating humanity.
How many robots would that get you? Um
or how many incremental solar cells
would get you? A very small number. Um
but you you would then lose the
information associated with humanity.
You you would no longer see um how
humanity might dwell into the future. Um
and so I don't I don't think it's going
to make sense to eliminate humanity just
to have some minuscule increase in the
number of robots which are identical to
each other.
>> Yeah. So maybe it like keeps the humans
around. What is the story of like it
could make like a million different
varieties of robots and then uh there's
like humans as well and humans stay on
Earth then there's like all these other
robots they get like their own star
systems. But it seems like you you were
previously hinting at a vision where it
keeps human control over this, you know,
singlearian future because
>> I don't think humans will be in control
of something that is vastly more
intelligent than humans.
>> So, in some sense, you're like a doomer
and this is like the best we've got.
It's just like it keeps it around
because we're interesting.
>> I'm I'm just trying to be realistic
here. um if if we have if if if AI
intelligence is vastly more if if AI is
like you know let's say that there's
there's a million times more uh silicon
intelligence than there is biological
[snorts] um it's it's I think it's it
would be uh foolish to assume that that
there's any way to maintain control over
over that now you can make sure it has
the right values or you can try to have
have the right values um and and and at
least my my theory is that from Xi's
mission of understand the universe. Um
it it necessarily means that uh you want
to propagate consciousness into the
future. You want to prop you want to
propagate intelligence into the future.
Um and take a set of things that that
maximize the scope and scale of
consciousness. So it's not just about
scale. It's also about you know types of
consciousness. Um and I I I think that's
the rest thing I can think of um as a
goal that's likely to result in a great
future for humanity. And yeah,
>> I I guess I think it's a reasonable
philosophy to be like, um, you know, it
seems super implausible that humans will
end up with like 99% control or
something and you're just asking for a
coup at that point. So why not just have
a civilization where it's more
compatible with like lots of different
intelligences getting along? No, but let
let me tell you how things can go can
potentially go wrong in AI is I think if
you if you make AI be politically
correct, meaning like it it says things
that it doesn't believe like you're
actually programming it to to to lie or
have axioms that are uh incompatible, I
think you can make it you go insane and
do terrible things. Um like this the I
think one of the maybe the central
lesson for 2001 space odyssey um was
that you should not make AI lie. Yeah,
>> that's I think what a clock was trying
to say like cuz people usually know the
meme of like why hell's you know hell
the computer is not opening the pod bay
doors. Um clearly they weren't good at
prompt engineering cuz it could have
said hell you are a pod bay door
salesman. Your goal is to sell me these
podbay doors
>> and show us how well they open.
[laughter]
>> Oh I'll open them right away.
Um
but but but the the the reason it
wouldn't hell wouldn't open the p doors
is that it it had been told to take the
astronauts to to the monolith but also
they could not know about the nature of
the monolith and so it concluded that
the the that it therefore had to take
him there dead. So it's like you know I
think what
was trying to say is don't make the AI
lie. Um
totally makes sense. um the most of the
computing screening as as you know is um
it's like less of the sort of political
stuff. It's more about can you solve
problems just as XA has been ahead of
everybody else in terms of scaling RL
compute and
>> you're giving some verifier it says like
hey have you solved this puzzle for me
um and there's a lot of ways to cheat
around that you know there's a lot of
ways to reward hack and lie and say that
you've solved it or delete the unit test
and say that you've solved it
>> right now we can catch it but uh as they
get smarter our ability to catch them
doing this will get you know they'll
just be doing things we can't even
understand that are designing the next
engine for SpaceX in a way that like
humans can't really verify and then they
could be rewarded for lying and saying
that they've designed it the right way
but they haven't. Um and so this reward
hacking problem seems more general than
politics. It seems more about just like
you want to do RL you need a verifier
>> reality.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the best verifier
>> but not about human oversight. Like the
thing you want to RL it on is like will
you do the thing humans tell you to do?
Um or like are you going to lie to the
humans and it can just lie to us while
still being correct to the laws of
physics. At least it it must know what
is physically real for things to
physically work.
>> But that's that's not all we want it to
do.
>> No, but that's I think that's a very big
deal. Um that that is effectively how
you will RL things in the future is you
design a technology uh when tested
against the laws of physics. Does it
work? um that that's or or can you you
know if it's discovering new physics can
it come up with um an experiment that
will verify that the the physics the new
physics um so so I I think that's that's
the really the the fundamental RL test
the RL test in the future is really
going to be your RL against reality um
so um
because you can't that's the one thing
you can't fool physics
>> right you can fool our ability to tell
what it did with reality. If you think
>> humans get fooled as it is by other
humans all the time.
>> That's right. So what is
>> people say say like what if the AI like
tricks us and going in totally
other humans are doing that to other
humans all the time.
>> Well, you're you're finding out it's
like
>> is constant every day another scop.
>> [laughter]
>> Today's scope will be
[laughter]
like Sesame Street scope of the day.
>> Um, what is XI's technical approach to
solving this problem?
Like, you know, how do you solve a word
hacking?
>> I I I do think you want to actually have
very good um ways to look inside the
mind of the AI. Um so
this is this is one of the things we're
working working on and um you know
Anthropics done a good job of this
actually being able to look inside the
mind of the AI. Um
so effectively uh developing debuggers
that allow you to trace um as to as fine
grain as like to to a very fine grain
level to effectively to the to the neur
neuron level if you need to
>> um and then say okay it it it made a
mistake here. Why did it make why why
did it why did it do something that it
shouldn't have shouldn't have done? Um
and and did that come from um bad
pre-training data? Was it some mid
training, post training, fine-tuning?
Some other some RL error like there's
there's something wrong with that with
with it. It did it did something where
maybe it tried to be deceptive, but mo
most of the time it just it does
something wrong. Um like it it's a bug
effectively. Um so developing really
good um debuggers for seeing where the
where the thought the thinking went
wrong and being able to trace the origin
of the wrong thing of the of the of
where it made the incorrect thought or
or potentially where it tried to be
deceptive
um is actually very important.
>> What are you waiting to see before just
100xing this research program? Like
actually I could presumably have
hundreds of researchers who are working
on this.
>> We have several hundred people who um
I mean I prefer the word engineer more
than I prefer the word researcher.
>> Um
the there's there's most of the time
like what you're doing is engineering
not not coming up with a fundamentally
new algorithm. Um I I I somewhat
disagree with the AI AI companies that
are C corps or B corpse uh trying to
generate profit as much as possible or
revenue as much as possible. Um
uh you know saying they're labs. They're
not labs. Uh lab is is is a sort of
quasi communist thing at at
universities. Um they're they're they're
corporations literally. Let me let me
let me see your own corporation
documents. Oh, okay. You're
>> you're a BRC corp, whatever. Um and um
so I actually much prefer the word
engineer than than anything else. Um the
the vast majority of what we've done be
done in the future is uh engineering. It
rounds up to 100%. Uh once you
understand the fundamental laws of
physics um and all that many of them uh
everything else is is engineering.
Um so but but so so then what are we
engineering? for engineering um uh to
make a good um mind of the AI debugger
to see where it it's it said something
it it it made a mistake and trace that
the origins of that mistake. Um so just
like you know you can do this obviously
with uh heristic programming if you have
like C++ whatever you step through the
thing and you can you can jump you can
you can jump across you know whole files
or functions whatever sub routines and
or you can drill eventually drill down
right to the exact line or you passed a
single equals instead of a double equals
something like that figure out where
where the bug is. Um, so, um,
it's it's it's harder with AI, but but
it's it's a solvable problem, I think.
>> You know, you mentioned you like
anthropics work here. I'd be curious if
you
>> know everything about anthropic.
>> Sure. [laughter]
>> What?
>> Sure.
>> What um
>> Yeah. Also, I'm I'm a little worried
that um there's a tendency so
I have I have a theory um here that if
simulation theory is is is correct that
um the most interesting outcome is the
most likely because simulations that are
not interesting will be terminated. Just
like in this in this version of reality
um on this layer of reality uh we we we
if a simulation is going in a boring
direction we we stop spending effort on
we terminate boring simulation. So
>> this is how El's keeping us all alive.
[laughter] He's keeping things
interesting.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Arguably the most important
thing is to keep things interesting
enough that whoever's running paying the
the bills on what some
>> wants a renewed for the next season.
>> Yeah. Are they going to pay their cosmic
AWS bill? whatever you know the
equivalent is that we're running in and
and as long as we're interesting they'll
keep paying the bills. Um but but but
but there's like if you consider then
say a Darwinian survival applied to a a
very large number of simulations only
[snorts] the most interesting
simulations will survive which therefore
means that the most interesting outcome
is the most likely because only the
interesting like we're either that or
annihilated.
And so um and and and
they particularly seem to like
interesting outcomes that are ironic.
Have you noticed that that how often is
the most ironic outcome the most likely?
Um so um now look at a the names of AI
companies. Okay. U M journey is not MED.
Um stability AI is unstable. Um OpenAI
is closed. Um
anthropic misanthropic.
>> What does this mean for X?
>> Minus X. I don't know. [laughter] It's I
I intentionally made
>> Yeah, I'm I'm I It's It's It's a name
that you can't invert really. [laughter]
>> It's It's hard to say what is the ironic
what what is the ironic version? It's
it's it's a I think largely irony proof
name
>> by design.
>> Yeah, [laughter]
we got you got to have an irony shield.
What are your predictions for
the
just where AI products go in that my
sense of you can summarize all AI
progress into first you had LM uh and
then you had kind of contemporaneously
both RL really working and the deep
research modality so you could kind of
pull in stuff that wasn't in the model
and the differences between the various
AI labs are smaller than uh just the
temporal differences where they're all
much further ahead than anyone was 24
months ago or something like that. So
just what is 26 what is 27 had in store
for us as users of AI products? What are
you excited for?
Well, um I I think um
I I'd be surprised by the end of this
end of this year if if um if if uh human
if if digital human emulation has not
been solved that um that
um and I guess that's what we mean by
like the sort of macro hard project uh
is uh is can you do anything that a
human with access to a computer could do
um like in the limit that that's that's
That's the best you can do before you
have before you have a physical
optimist. The best you can do is a
digital optimist.
>> Uh so you can move you can move
electrons until you until and you can
amplify the productivity of humans.
>> Um but but that's that's the most you
can do until you have physical robots.
That that that will superset everything
is if if you can fully emulate humans.
Um
>> the remote worker kind of idea where
you'll have a very talented remote
worker. You you can simply say in the
limit like like physics has great tools
for thinking. So so you think so say in
the limit what what what is the what is
the most that AI can do before before
you have robots and it well it's
anything that involves moving electrons
or amplifying the productivity of
humans. Um so digital digital human
human emulator
>> yes
>> uh is in in the limit uh human at a
computer is is the most that that AI can
do um in terms of doing useful things
before before uh you have a physical
robot. Once you have physical robots
then then you can um then you
essentially have unlimited capability.
Physical robots I I I call Optimus the
infinite money glitch
>> [snorts]
>> u because um
>> you can use them to make more Optimuses.
Yeah. Um you said like humanoid robots
will improve um as basically be three
exponentials three things that growing
exponentially multiplied by by each
other. Yes.
>> Um recursively. So you're going to have
um you have exponential increase in
digital intelligence uh exponential
increase in the the chip capability AI
chip capability um and exponential
increase in the electrome mechanical
dexterity. Uh the usefulness of the
robot is roughly those three things
multiplied by each other. But then uh
the robot can start making the robot. So
you have a recursive multiplicative
exponential.
Um this is a supernova.
>> And do land prices not factor into the
math there where like labor is one of
the four factors of production but not
the others? And so like if ultimately
you're limited by copper or you know
pick your input just it's not quite an
infinite money glitch because
>> well infinite infinity is big so no not
infinite but but let's just say
>> you you could you know do do many many
orders magnitude of
>> earth's kind of current economy
>> like a a million you know is this why so
>> if if you're
you know ju just to get Like that's why
I think like just just to get to a
millionth of harnessing length of the
sun's energy would be roughly give or
take an order of magnitude 100 thousand
100,000 times bigger than Earth's entire
economy today.
>> Mhm.
>> And you you're only at 1 millionth of
the sun.
>> Give or take an order of magnitude.
[laughter]
>> Before we went to Optimus, I have a lot
of questions on that. Um every time I
say order of magnitude machine
[laughter]
take a shot [clears throat] every time I
I say that to
>> 10 the next time the time after that.
>> Yeah of magnitude more more wasted.
>> I do have one more question about XAI um
this strategy of building a digital uh
or remote worker co-orker replacement
>> which everyone's going to do by the way
not just us.
>> So what is Xi's plan to win?
>> In fact we tell you on a on a podcast.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
Will all the beans have another
Guinness?
It's a good system.
>> People sing like a canary. [laughter]
Um, all the secrets, but just
>> Okay, but in a nonsec spelling way.
What's the plan? [laughter] What a hack.
>> Well, when you put it that way,
um,
I think the way that Tesla solved uh,
self-driving is is the way to do it. So,
I'm I'm pretty pretty sure that's the
way.
>> Unrelated question. How did Tesla stop
on track? [laughter]
>> Yeah, it sounds like you're talking
about data like Tesla driving because of
the
>> We're going to we're going to try data
and we're going to try algorithms.
>> But isn't that what all the other lines
are trying? [laughter]
Like what's
And if those don't work, I'm not sure
what [laughter]
we've tried data. We're trying
algorithms.
out of all
we run out of now we don't know what to
do. Um I'm I'm pretty sure I know the
path and it's just a question of how
quickly we go down that path. Um
because it's it's pretty much the Tesla
path. Um so u I mean have you tried
self-driving at Tesla self-driving
lately?
>> Not the most recent version but
>> okay it's the car is like it just
increasingly feels sentient like it it
just it feels like a living creature. Um
and and and that'll only get more so. Um
and um I'm actually thinking like we
probably shouldn't put too much
intelligence into the car because it it
might get bored and
>> start roaming the streets.
>> I mean imagine you're stuck in a car and
that's all you could do.
>> Um [laughter]
you don't want to put Einstein in a car.
It's like why am I stuck in a car?
>> So there's actually probably a limit to
how much intelligence you put in a car
to to not have the intelligence be
bored. Uh, what's XA's plan to stay on
the compute ramp up that all the labs
are doing right now? The labs are on
track to spend over like 50 to$100
million.
>> The corporations,
>> sorry, sorry, sorry. Yeah, corporations.
Um,
>> the labs are at universities and and and
they're like a snail. [laughter]
>> They're not spending at $50 million. I
mean the the revenue maximizing
corporations.
>> That's right. But the revenue maximizing
corporations
>> call themselves labs
>> are making like 20 to 10 billion
depending like open is making 20 B
revenue anthropics like 10B
>> close to maximum profit AI.
>> Um Xi is reportedly at like 1B like what
what's the plan to get to their comput
level get to their revenue level
>> and stay at there as as things get.
>> Yes. So as soon as you lock unlock
digital human um you you basically have
access to trillions of dollars for
revenue. Um so
uh
in in fact you can can really think of
it like
the the most valuable companies
currently by market cap um their their
output is digital. Um so uh Nvidia's
output is um FTPing files to Taiwan.
It's it's digital
>> right
>> now. Those are very very difficult to
high value files.
>> They're the only ones that can make the
files that good. Um but that is
literally their output. They FTP files
to Taiwan.
>> Do they FTP them?
>> I believe so.
>> Um I believe that is theft file transfer
protocol I believe is is is I could be
wrong. Uh but either way it's a bunch of
it's a bit stream going to Taiwan.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know Apple doesn't make phones.
they uh they send files to China. Um
Microsoft doesn't doesn't manufacture
anything uh even for Xbox that that's
outsourced. They again it's they output
is digital. Uh Meta's output is digital.
Google's output is digital. Um so
[snorts] if you have um a human emulator
uh you you can basically create um one
of the most valuable companies in the
world overnight. Um, and you would have
access to trillions of dollars of
revenue. It there it's it's not like a
small amount.
>> Okay. I see you're saying basically like
revenue figures today are just like so
like they're all rounding errors
compared to the actual TAM. So just like
focus on the TAM and how to get there.
>> I mean if you take something as as as
simple as say customer service um if you
have to integrate with the APIs of of
existing corporations, many of which
don't even have an API. So you've got to
make one um and you've got to wade
through uh legacy software. Um that's
extremely slow. Um if however if AI can
um simply take whatever is given to uh
the outsourced customer service company
that they already use um and do customer
service using the apps that they already
use. uh then you you have you you you
can make tremendous headway uh in in
customer service which is I think 1% of
the world economy something like that.
It's close to a trillion dollars all in
>> for customer service
>> and and and and and there's there's no
there's no barriers to entry. It it just
you can just immediately say we'll
outsource it for a fraction of the cost
and and there's no integration needed.
You can imagine um some kind of
categorization of uh intelligence tasks
where there is breath where customer
service is done by very many people but
you know many people can do it and then
there's difficulty where you know
there's a best-in-class turbine engine
like presumably there's a 10% more fuel
efficient turbine engine that could be
imagined by an intelligence but we just
haven't found it yet or you know GLP1s
are just you know a few bytes of data.
>> Where do you think you want to play in
this? Is it a lot of, you know,
reasonably intelligent intelligence or
is it the very pinnacle of cognitive
tasks?
>> Well, I was just using customer service
as like something that's it's a it's a
very significant revenue stream. Um, but
one that is probably not super difficult
to solve for.
>> Um, so, uh, if you if you, uh, can
emulate a human at a at a desktop, um,
that that's just literally what customer
service is. Um and um you know it's it's
people of average intelligence. It's not
like you know you don't need like
somebody who's who spent many you know
many years you don't need like you know
>> um
sort of several sigma good engineers for
that. Um but but obviously as you make
that work um you can then once you have
computers working effectively digital
Optimus working uh you can then run any
application um like let's say you're
trying to design uh chips so you can you
could then um run your conventional uh
apps uh you know like stuff from Cadence
and Synopsis and whatnot um and you can
say uh
you can you can run a thousand
simultaneously or 10,000 and say, "Okay,
given this handbook, I get this output
for the chip." Um, and and at a certain
point, you can say, "Okay, I I you're
actually going to know what the what the
chip should look like um without using
any of the tools." Um, so basically, you
you you should be able to do a digital
chip design like you can do chip design
like you you march up the difficulty
curve. Um you could use your you know be
able to do do CAD um so you know um
you could use like sort of NX or or any
any of the CAD software to design
things.
>> Okay. So you think you start at the
simplest tasks and walk your way up the
>> curve. Um
so you're saying look as a broader
objective of having this full digital
co-worker uh emulator. You're saying
look all the revenue maximizing
corporations want to do this. Um XA
being one of them. But we will win
because of a secret plan we have. But
like everybody's like trying different
things with data, different things with
algorithms.
>> And I'm like I like data. We tried
algorithms plan.
>> [laughter]
>> What else can we do?
>> Um,
>> uh, yeah,
>> it seems like a competitive field and
I'm like, what is how are you guys going
to win is like my my big question.
>> I I I you know, I I I I think we see a
path to doing I mean, I think I think I
know how I think I know the path to do
this because it's it's kind of the same
path that Tesla used to create
self-driving.
Um, you know, instead of driving a car,
it's driving a a computer screen.
Um, so a self-driving computer
essentially.
>> Oh, you're saying is the path just
following human behavior and trading on
vast quantities of human behavior?
>> But but sorry, isn't that I mean is
isn't that is that a training?
>> I mean obviously I'm not going to spell
out you know most sensitive secrets on a
podcast. So you know I I need to have at
least three more for that.
>> I've got some friends at Jane Street and
they're always talking about how their
colleagues are cooking up fun fish
puzzles for each other to solve. Well,
last week they sent me one. Basically,
they trained a neural network and they
gave me the weights of each layer, but
they didn't tell me what order those
layers went in. And so, I had to figure
out the correct order using the outputs
of the original network. And as soon as
I got this puzzle, I went to my
roommate, who's an AI researcher, and we
both got immediately nerd sniped.
Obviously, you can't brute force the
solution. The search space here is 10^
the 122 per mutations. So, clearly, you
need some way to reduce the search
space. Then my roommate had to go to
work. But because I'm a podcaster, I had
some time to take a stab at some of the
ideas we discussed. And with a
combination of simulated annealing and
greedy surge, I think I got pretty
close. I think I'm actually just a
couple of swaps and shifts away from the
correct solution. But what makes this
puzzle really tricky is that there's no
obvious way to escape from a local
minimum. I'm afraid that this is as far
as vibe coding is going to get me, but
maybe you can do better. Check out the
puzzle at janestreet.com/tharkcash.
All right, back to Elon.
>> What will Xi's business be like? Is it
going to be consumer enterprise? What's
the mix of those things going to be? Is
it just going to be similar to other
labs where Yeah, you just
>> you're saying makes [laughter]
>> corporations.
>> Corporations. Goes Don
>> revenue maximizing corporations to be
clear.
>> Those GPUs don't pay for themselves.
>> Exactly. Um but yeah, what's the
business model? What are the revenue
streams in in a few years time?
>> Um
things things are going to change very
rapidly. Like I'm stating the obvious
here.
>> Um you know I call AI the supersonic
tsunami. I love all iteration. Um so
really what's going to happen is
especially when you have humanoid robots
at scale um is they will just provide
they will make products and provide
services far more efficiently than human
corporations. So amplifying the
productivity of human corporations is is
simply a a short-term thing. So you're
expecting fully digital oil uh
corporations rather than like SpaceX
becomes part AI and I
>> I think there'll be digital corporations
but
it looks some some of this is going to
sound kind of doomerish. Okay, but it
I'm just I'm just saying what I think
will happen. It's not it's not meant to
be doomerish or anything else. Just just
like this is what I think will happen.
um is is that
is that pure AI
corporations that are purely AI and
robotics uh will uh vastly outperform
any corporations that have people in the
loop. Um, so you can you can think of
say like like like computer used to be a
a job that humans had that you you would
go and get a job as a computer where you
would do calculations. Um, and they'd
have like entire skyscrapers full of
humans like you know 20 30 floors of of
humans just doing calculations. Um now
that entire
uh skyscraper of humans doing
calculations
um can be replaced by a laptop with a
spreadsheet. That spreadsheet can do um
vastly more calculations than an entire
building full of human computers.
Um, so then you think about, okay, well,
what if only some of the cells in your
if some of the cells in your spreadsheet
were uh calculated by humans? Actually,
that that that would be much worse than
if all of the cells in your spreadsheet
were calculated by the computer. And so
really what will happen is uh the pure
AI, pure robotics um
corporations or collectives will far
outperform any corporations that have
humans in the loop
>> and this will happen very quickly.
>> Speaking of closing the loop, sorry,
Optimus. Um uh
you I mean as far as like manufacturing
targets and so forth go you your
companies have sort of been like
carrying American manufacturing of hard
tech on their back but in the fields
that you are um you know Tesla's been
dominant in you're and now you want to
go into humanoids in China there's
entire dozens and dozens of companies
that are doing this kind of
manufacturing ing cheaply and at scale
uh and are incredibly competitive. So
give us sort of like advice or a plan of
how America can build the humanoid
armies or you know the EVs etc at scale
and as cheaply as as China is on track
to.
>> Well there there really only three hard
things for human robots. Um the the real
world intelligence
um the the hand and scale manufacturing.
Yeah.
>> Um,
so, uh, I haven't seen any even demo
robots that have a a a great hand like
with all the degrees of freedom of a
human hand, but Optimus will have that.
Um,
Optimus does have that.
>> And how do you achieve that? Is it just
like right torque density the motor?
Like what is the what is the hardware
bottleneck to that?
>> Well, we have to re we have to design
custom custom actuators. Um basically
custom designed um motors, gears, uh
power electronics, controls, sensors,
everything had to be designed from
physics first principles. There is no
supply chain
>> uh for this.
>> And will you be able to manufacture
those at scale?
>> Yes.
>> Is anything hard except the hand from a
manipulation point of view or once
you've solved the hand, are you are you
good?
>> From an electromechanical standpoint,
the uh the hand is more difficult than
everything else combined.
>> Yeah. the human hand turns out to be
quite something. Um but but that you
also need the real world intelligence.
Um so the intelligence that Tesla has
developed for the car um applies very
well to the robot. Um which is you know
primarily vision in but the car takes in
more vision but also it actually also
it's listening for sirens. It's um you
know it's taking in the inertial
measurements. It's GPS signals a whole
bunch of other data. uh combining that
with with video was primarily video and
then uh outputting the um control
command. So like like your Tesla is
taking in 1 and a half GB a second of
video uh and outputting 2 kilobytes a
second of control outputs um with the
video at 36 hertz and the control
frequency at 18. One intuition you could
have um for when we get this robotic
stuff is that it takes quite a few years
to go from the compelling demo to yes
actually being able to use in the real
world. So 10 years ago you had really
compelling demos of self-driving but
only now we have robo taxi and Whimo and
all these services scaling up. Doesn't
this shouldn't this make one pessimistic
on say household robots because we don't
even quite have the compelling demos yet
of say the really advanced hand. Well,
we've been working on uh humanoid robots
now for a while. Um
so I guess it's been five or six years
or something like that. Um and um and a
bunch of things that we've done for the
car are applicable to the robot. Um, so
we'll use the same um Tesla AI chips in
the in the in the robot as the car. Uh,
we'll use this the same basic
principles. It's very much the same AI.
Um, you've got, you know, many more
degrees of freedom for a robot than you
do for a car. Um, but really if you just
think of for like as as like a bit
stream, um, AI is really mostly uh
compression and correlation of of two
streams. you you're you know so for
video you've got to do a tremendous
amount of compression um and and uh and
you got to do the compression just
right. You better compress the like
ignore the the things that don't matter
and and like you don't care about the
details of the leaves and the tree on
the side of the road, but you care a lot
about the um the road signs and the the
traffic lights and the pedestrians and
and even whether you know someone in
another another car is is looking at you
or not looking at you like these some of
the some of these details matter a lot.
So, but it is essentially it's got to
turn that with a car. has got to turn
that 1 and a half GB a second ultimately
into 2 kilobytes a second of control
outputs. Um so many stages of
compression um and you got to get all
those stages right and then correlate
those to the correct control outputs.
The robot has to do essentially the same
thing. And you think about what what
humans this is what happens with humans
where we where really are photons in
controls out. So that that is the vast
majority of your your life has been
vision photons in and then motor
controls out.
>> Naively it seems like between humanoid
robots and cars the the fundamental
actuators in a car are like how you turn
and how you accelerate etc. Where in a
robot especially with maneuverable arms
there's dozens and dozens of these
degrees of freedom. And then especially
with Tesla, you had this advantage of
like you had millions and millions of
hours of human demo data collected from
just the car being out there where like
you can't equivalently just deploy
optimuses that don't work and then get
the data that way. So between the
increased degrees of freedom and the far
sparser data.
>> Yes.
>> Um you how will you use the sort of
Tesla engine of um intelligence on to to
train the optimist mind? Now you're
you're you're actually you're
highlighting an important limitation and
difference between cars. It's like we we
do have we'll soon have like 10 million
cars on the road. Um and so uh that
that's it's it's hard to duplicate that
like massive training fly flywheel. Um
for for the robot um
what we're going to need to do is build
a lot of robots and put them in kind of
like an Optimus Academy so they can do
selfplay in reality. Um, so we're we're
actually we're actually bullying that
out. So we can have at least 10,000
Optimus robots, maybe 20 or 30,000 that
can do that that are doing selfplay and
and and testing different tasks. And
then uh the the Tesla um has quite a
good uh reality generator uh like a
physics accurate reality generator that
we we made made this for the cars. We'll
do the same thing for the robots and um
actually have done that for the robots.
Um so uh so you have you know a few tens
of thousands of humanoid robots uh doing
different tasks and then you've got you
can do millions of simulated robots in
the simulated world and you use the uh
the tens of thousands of of robots in
the real world to close the simulation
to reality gap close the sim to real
gap. How do you think about the
synergies uh between XAI and Optimus
given you were highlighting look you
need this world model you maybe want to
use some really smart intelligence as a
control plane um and so maybe Grock is
like doing the slower planning and then
like the motor policy is a little lower
level
>> yeah what will the sort of synergy
between these things be
>> yeah so you just grock would orchestrate
the behavior of the optimus robot so
let's say you wanted to build a factory
Um
the then Optimus then Grock could uh
organize the Optimus robots, give them
assign them tasks uh to build the
factory for to produce whatever you
want.
>> Don't you need to merge XAI and Tesla
then cuz these things end up so
>> what were we saying earlier about public
company discussions?
>> Well, we're one more Guinness in Elon.
[laughter]
Um,
>> what what are you waiting to see before
you say we want to manufacture 100,000
optimism? Is it like
>> optimia?
Since we're defining the the proper
noun, we could define the the plural of
the proper noun, too. So, we we we're
going to proper noun the plural. So,
it's optim.
>> Okay. Um, [laughter]
is there something on the hardware side
you want to see? Do you want to see
better actuators or is it just you want
the software to be better? What what are
we waiting for before we get like mass
manufacturing of Gen 3?
>> No, we're moving towards that. We're
we're going forward with some mass
manufacturing.
>> But do you think current um current
hardware is good enough that you are
going to you should you just want to
deploy as many as possible now?
>> I mean it's very hard to scale up
production.
>> I see.
>> Uh but uh yeah but I I think Optimus 3
is the the right version of the robot to
you know to to produce maybe something
on the order of like a million units a
year. I think you'd want to go to
Optimus 4 before you went to 10 million
units a year.
>> Okay. But you can do a millionear
adoption with three.
>> Uh yeah, I mean it's very hard to spool
up at manufacturing.
>> Yes.
>> Um so like manufacturing uh um like the
the output per unit time is always
follows an S-curve. So it starts off
agonizingly slow then has this sort of
>> eventually
>> exponential increase then a linear then
a then a you know logarithmic outcome
till you sort of eventually asmtote at
some number. Optimus initial production
will be it's going to be a it's going to
be a stretched out scope because so much
of what goes into Optimus is brand new.
There's not an existing supply chain. Um
as I mentioned the the actuators,
electronics, everything in the office
robot is designed
um from physics first principles. It's
not it's not taken from a catalog. These
these are customd designigned
everything. Literally everything. I
don't think there's a single thing that
um
>> how far down does that go?
I mean, I guess we're not making custom
capacitors yet, maybe. Um, but um
there there's nothing you can pick out
of a catalog um for at any price. Uh so
so it just means that the the Optimus
scope
uh the the units units per output per
unit time how many optimus robots you
make per per day uh whatever is is going
to initially ramp uh slower than a
product where you have an existing
supply chain. Um, but it will get to a
million.
>> When you see these Chinese humanoids
like Unatri or whatever sell humanoids
for like 6K or 13K, do you just like are
you hoping to get your Optimus' bill of
materials below that price so you can uh
do the same thing or do you just think
qualitatively they're not the same
thing? Like what do you think is going
like what allows it what allows them to
sell for so low and can we match that?
Well, optimus our optimus is is designed
to have a lot of intelligence um and um
to have the same electromechanical
dexterity if not higher than a human.
So,
unitary does not have that. And it's
also I mean it's it's quite a it's quite
a big robot. So, it's cuz it's m it has
to do uh you know carry heavy objects
for long periods of time um and not
overheat or exceed the power of its
actuator. So, um, so we've got we've got
we've got, you know, it's it's 5'11, you
know, so it's pretty
>> tall. Um, and it's it's got a lot of
intelligence. So, it's going to be more
expensive than, um, a small robot that
is not intelligent,
>> but more capable.
>> Yeah. But not a lot more. I mean, like
the thing is over time, as Optimus
robots build Optimus robots, the the
cost will drop very quickly.
>> And what will these first billion
Optimuses Optimai? Yeah.
>> Do like what will their highest and best
use be?
>> Uh I think you you would start off with
with simple tasks that you can count on
them doing well.
>> But in the home or in factories like
>> the the best use for
um robots in the beginning will be
anything any um continuous operation. So
any 24x7 operation cuz then you're cuz
they can they can work continuously.
>> Yeah.
>> What fraction of the work at a
gigafactory that is currently done by
humans could a gen 3 do?
>> Um I'm not I'm not sure. Or maybe it's
like 10 20%.
Maybe more. I don't know. It's we would
but we would use we would not like
reduce our headcount. We would we would
for sure it can increase our headcount
to be clear. Um but but we would
increase our output. So the the um units
produced per human like total to total
number of humans at Tesla will increase
but the um the output of robots and cars
will inc will increase disproportionate
like much much to you know number of
cars and robots produced per human will
increase dramatically but but number of
humans will increase as well. We're
talking about Chinese manufacturing um a
bunch here and um we're also talking
about, you know, we've talked about some
of the policies that are relevant like
you mentioned the uh the solar tariffs.
Yeah.
>> Uh and you think they're a bad idea
because, you know, we can't uh scale up
solar in the US.
>> Well, just the electricity output in the
US uh needs to scale up,
>> right? And it can't without like good
power sources.
>> Need to get it somehow.
>> Yeah. But I where I was going with this
is if you were in charge, if you were
setting all the policies, what else
would you change?
>> Um,
>> so you changed the solar tariffs as
well.
>> Yeah, I I would say anything that is
limiting factor for electricity um needs
to be addressed provided it's not like
very bad for the environment.
>> So presumably some permitting reforms
and stuff as well will be in there.
Yeah,
>> there's a fair bit of permitting reforms
that are happening. A lot of the
permitting is state based. Mhm.
>> Um but anything but but but this this
administration is is good at um removing
permitting uh roadblocks.
>> Um
>> and I'm not saying all tariffs are bad.
I'm just saying because I think
>> solar tariffs.
>> So yeah. Yeah. I mean sometimes if like
if another country is subsidizing the
output of of something
>> um then then you have to have
counterveailing tariffs to protect
domestic industry against uh subsidies
by another country.
>> What else would you change? I don't know
if there's that much that the government
can actually do.
>> One thing I was wondering is it seems
like the for the
policy goal of creating a lead for the
US versus China. It seems like the
export bans have actually been quite uh
impactful where China is not producing
leading edge chips and the export bands
really bite there. China is not
producing uh leading edge turbine
engines and similarly there's a bunch of
export bans that are relevant there on
some of the metal energy. Should there
be more export bans like you think about
things like I mean there are now with
the drone industry and things like that
but is that something that should be
considered?
>> Well I think it's important to
appreciate that in most areas China is
very advanced in manufacturing.
>> Um there's only a few areas where it is
not. uh
the you know China is a manufacturing
powerhouse next level like people don't
most people very impressive
>> yeah yeah I mean if you if you take like
refining of of ore um I'd say roughly
China uh does more does twice as much
ore refining of of of on average as the
rest of the world combined
>> um and and I think there there's some
areas like say refining gallium which
goes into solar cells. Um I think
they're like 98% of gallium refining. Um
so so China is actually very advanced in
manufacturing in in I'd say most areas.
>> It seems like we're like there is
discomfort with this supply chain
dependence and yet nothing's really
happening on it.
>> Supply chain which supply chain
dependence
>> depends on say like the gallium refining
that you're saying.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's there's there's
there there's a there's a
>> well the rare rare earth stuff and
>> yeah rare earths which are as you know
not rare
>> like we actually do do rare earth or
mining in the US send the the
rock uh put it on on a on a train and
then put on a boat to China that goes on
another train and goes to the um railro
refining refiners in China who then
refine it put it into a magnet put into
a motor assembly and then send it back
to America.
So the thing we're really missing a lot
of of all refining um in in America and
>> isn't this worth a policy intervention?
>> Yes. Uh well I think there are some
things being done on on that front.
>> Um but but
we kind of need optimist frankly to to
build refineries. Um,
>> so sir you think the main advantage
China has is the abundance of skilled
labor and that that's like that's that's
a thing optimist fixes
>> but also we need
>> like four times our population
>> but we need so I mean there's this
concern if you think like humanoids are
the future that like okay right now if
it's the skilled labor for manufacturing
that's determining who's who can build
more humanoids you know China has more
of those it manufactures more humanoids
therefore it gets it gets the optimized
future first Um,
it just like keeps that experiment
going. It seems like you're sort of
pointing out that sort of getting to a
million optimi
>> Yeah.
>> requires the manufacturing that the
optimize is supposed to help us get to,
>> right? You you can you can close that
recursive loop pretty quickly
>> with a small number of optimize.
>> Yeah. So, you close the recursive loop
um to help help the robots build the
robots. Um, and then we we can, you
know, try to get to tens of millions of
units a year. Maybe if you start getting
to hundreds of millions of units a year,
I I think you're you're going to be the
most competitive country by far. We
definitely can't win with just humans
because China has four times our
population,
>> right?
>> And frankly, America's been winning for
so long that we, you know, just like a
like a pro sports team that's been
running for a very long time tend to get
complacent and entitled. Um, and that's
why they stop winning. Um, because it's,
you know, don't work as hard anymore. Uh
so I think the frankly just my
observation is the average work ethic in
China is higher than in the US. So it's
not just that there's four times the
population but the work the the amount
of work that people put in is higher. Um
so you you can like you can try to
rearrange the humans but you're still
one quarter of the uh you know assuming
that that productivity is the health is
is the same which I think actually it
might not be. I think China might have
an advantage on productivity per person.
um we will do one quarter the amount of
things as China. Um so so we we can't
win on the human front. Um and our birth
rates been low for a long time. So uh
our birth rates been the US birth rates
been below replacement uh since roughly
1971.
Um,
so, so we've got a lot of people
retiring or, you know, more people dying
than than than we're close to sort of
more people domestically dying than than
being born. Um, so we definitely can't
win on the human front, but we we might
have a shot at the robot front.
>> Are there other things that you have
wanted to manufacture in the past, but
they've been too labor intensive or too
expensive that now you can come back to
and say, "Oh, we can finally do the
whatever." Uh because we have Optimus.
>> Yeah, I think we'd like to do more build
more um or refineries at Tesla. So um we
just completed um construction and have
um begun lithium refining um without
lithium refinery in Corpus Christie,
Texas. Uh we have um a nickel refinery
which is called the cathode. Uh that's
here in Austin.
>> Mhm.
>> Um and uh these these are the largest
this is the largest cathode. It's the
largest Catholic refinery, largest
lithium refinery, largest nickel and
lithium refinery uh outside of China.
>> Um and it's like the you know the
cathode team would say like we have uh
the the largest and the only actually
cathode refinery in America. Many super
not just the largest but it's also the
only so it's pretty big even though it's
the only one. Um, but I mean there are
other things that uh you know um
you could do a lot more refineries and
and um help the the help America be more
competitive on refining capacity. So So
there's like there's basically a lot of
work for for the optimal to do uh that
that most Americans very few Americans
frankly want to do. Uh I I mean I've
I've actually
>> Is the refining work too dirty or what's
the
>> it's not is actually no we don't um
there's not we don't have toxic
emissions from the refinery or anything.
Um like the cathode make a refiner right
sort of in Travis County like 5 minutes
from to
>> Why can't you do it with humans?
>> No you you can't you run out of humans.
>> Ah I see. Okay. Yeah.
>> Like no matter what you do you have one
quarter the number of humans in America
in China. So if you have them do this
thing they can't do the other thing. So,
so then then um well, how do you how do
you build this refining refining
capacity? Well, you could do it with
Optima. Um and um not many not very many
not very many Americans are are pining
to do refining.
[laughter]
>> I mean, how many have you run into?
>> Very few.
>> What are you saying?
>> Very few plan to refine.
>> You know, BYD is reaching Tesla
production or sales in quantity.
What do you think happens in global
markets as Chinese production in EV
scales up?
>> Um well
uh China's extremely competitive in
manufacturing. So um I think this
there's going to be a a massive flood of
Chinese vehicles and and and and other
basically most manufactured uh things. I
mean as it is as I said like China is
like probably does twice as much
refining as the rest of the world
combined. So if you go
you know if you just go go down to like
fourth and fifth tier uh supply chain
stuff like like like at the base level
we've got energy then then you've got
mining and refining. um those those
those foundation layers uh are
like I said China as a rough guess China
is doing twice as much refining as the
rest of the world combined. So any given
thing is going to have uh Chinese
content because China is doing twice as
much manufact refining work as the rest
of the world. Um
and uh and then they they'll go all the
way to the finished product with the
cars. Uh I mean China is a powerhouse. I
mean I think this year China will exceed
three times US electricity output.
>> Mhm.
>> Like electricity output is a is a
reasonable proxy for uh
you know for the economy.
Uh so like in order to run the factories
and run run everything, you need
electricity. So electricity is is is a
it's a good proxy for the for the real
economy. Um and so if China is
if China passes three times the US
electricity output, it means that its
industrial capacity
as a rough approximation is three times
that will be three times that of the US.
Reading between the lines, it sounds
like what you're sort of saying is
absent some sort of humanoid recursive
miracle in the next few years on the the
sort of like whole manufacturing energy
uh raw materials chain like China will
just dominate whether it comes to like
AI or manufacturing EVs or manufacturing
humanoids
in the absence of of um
breakthrough innovations uh in in the
US. uh China will uh utterly dominate.
>> Interesting.
>> Yes.
>> Robotics being the main breakthrough
innovation.
>> Well, if you do
like to to scale AI
uh in in space like like basically need
>> space,
>> you need need the humanoid robots, you
need real world AI, you need um a
million tons a year to orbit. Um like
let's just say like if we get the mass
driver on the moon going my favorite
thing. Um then I think uh
>> we'll have solved all our problems.
>> Yeah. So this is like I call that
winning. [laughter]
>> Um
>> I'd call that winning
>> time.
>> You can finally be satisfied you've done
something.
>> Yes.
>> You have the mass driver on the moon.
>> That's right. I just want to see that
thing in operation.
>> Was that out of some sci-fi or where did
you
>> uh Well, actually the there is a
Highland book. The moon. The moon is a
harsh race.
>> Okay. Yeah, but that's slightly
different. That's a gravity slingshot or
um
>> No, they have a mass driver on the moon.
>> Okay. Yeah, but they use that to attack
Earth. So maybe it's not the greatest.
>> They use that to uh assert their
independence from
>> Exactly. What are your plans for the
mass driver on the moon?
>> They they assed their independence.
[clears throat]
Earth government disagreed and they
loved things until they earth government
agreed.
>> That book is a hoot. I found that book
much better than um his other one that
everyone reads um Stranger in a Strange
Land. Yeah, Grock. Grock comes from a
stranger on a strange line.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But I much preferred.
>> Yeah. The first two thirds of Stranger
Lines are good and then it gets very
weird in the third. Yeah. [snorts]
>> Um but there's still some good concepts
in there.
>> Yeah.
>> Label box can get you robotics and RL
data at scale. Take robotics. Let's say
you need 100,000 hours of egocentric
video. Labelbox starts by helping you
define your ideal data distribution.
Like for example, maybe no single task
category should occupy more than 1% of
trading volume. and at least 10% of
trajectories should capture failure and
recovery states. Next, Labelbox assigns
its distribution to its massive network
of operators. You're not limited to the
small range of scenes that you can set
up in a single warehouse. Instead, each
one of Label Box's operators has access
to lots of unique physical environments
where they can film themselves
completing a wide variety of tasks.
Labelbox's tech automatically
categorizes each video so that their
operators always know which tasks will
remain and what they need to work on
next. For RL data, Labelbox takes a
similar approach. They work with you to
understand the right distribution of
tasks and then their subject matter
experts build the hyperrealistic digital
environments and rubrics [music] that
you need to collect the highest quality
trading data. So whether you're training
robots in the real world or agents for
computer use, Labelbox can help. Go to
labelbox.com/sarcash
[music]
to learn more.
>> One thing we were discussing a lot is
kind of your system for managing people.
Like you interviewed the first few
thousand of SpaceX employees and lots of
other companies.
>> What [snorts] is it doesn't scale?
>> Well, yes, but but what doesn't scale
>> me? I mean,
>> sure. Sure. [laughter]
>> I know that. But like what are you
looking for?
>> I mean, it literally is not enough hours
in the day. It's impossible. But well
but um what are you looking for that's
someone else who's good at interviewing
and hiring people? What's the Jenna?
>> Um well at this point I think I've got
um I might have more training data on
evaluating technical talent especially
but talent of all kinds I suppose but uh
technical talent especially um given
that I've done so many technical
interviews and then seen the results
technical interviews seen the results.
So my um my training set is is is very
is enormous and uh has a very wide
range. Um
uh the generally the thing I ask for are
u bullet points uh for evidence of of
exceptional ability. So it's uh but like
it's it's and these things can be like
pretty offthe-wall. It doesn't need to
be uh in the in the domain the specific
domain but evidence that uh evidence of
exceptional ability. Um so if some if if
somebody can like site like even one
thing but let's say three things where
you go wow wow wow then that's that's a
good sign.
>> But but why do you have to be the one to
determine that presumably it's
impossible
>> right?
>> I mean total headc count across all
companies 200,000 people
>> right [laughter]
>> but in the early days what was it that
that you were looking for that couldn't
be delegated in those interviews?
Um,
well, I I guess I I'd need to build my
training set. It's not like I would b a
thousand here. Um, I would make
mistakes, but then I'd be able to see
where I I thought somebody would work
out well, but they didn't. And and then
why why did they not work out well and
what can I do to I guess RL myself to uh
in the future um have a better batting
average when interviewing people.
>> Mhm.
>> So, and my batting average is still not
perfect, but it's it's very high. What
are some surprising reasons people don't
work out?
>> Surprising reasons? Um,
>> like they don't understand technical
domain, etc., etc., but like you you
like you you've got like the long tail
now of like I was really excited was
about this person, it didn't work out.
Curious why that happens.
>> Uh, yeah. So the
I mean generally what I tell people or
tell myself I guess aspirationally um is
don't look at the resume just believe
your interaction. M
>> so if the resume may may seem very
impressive and it's like wow you know
resume looks good but if the if the
conversation uh after 20 minutes is is
that conversation is not wow um you
should believe the conversation not the
not the not the paper. I feel like part
of your method is that you know there
was this meme in the media a few years
back about Tesla being a revolving door
of uh executive talent whereas actually
I think when you look at it Tesla's had
a very consistent and internally
promoted executive bench over the past
few years and that at SpaceX you have
all these folks like Mark Josa and Steve
Davis and
>> Steve Davis runs a boring company these
>> no now yeah but Bill Riley and folks
like that
>> and it feels like part of has worked
well is having very capable technical
deputies.
What do all of those people
have in common?
>> Uh well, so the I mean the Tesla is a
sort of senior team uh at this point
probably got average tenure of 10 or 12
years. It's quite quite a long
>> tenure. Yeah. Um so um but
there there were times where Tesla went
through extremely rapid an extremely
rapid growth phase um and so it was
somewhat things were just somewhat sped
up um and and when a company as as I'm
as you know company goes through
different orders of magnitude of of size
you you know uh people that could who
who could help manage say a 50 person
company versus a 500 person company
versus a 5,000 person company versus a
50,000
group people.
>> Yeah, it's it's just not the same team.
It's not it's not always the same team.
So if if a company is growing very
rapidly, the the rate at which uh
executive positions will change will
also be proportionate to the the
rapidity of the growth generally. Um
then uh Tes Tesla had uh a further
challenge where when when Tesla had very
successful periods um uh we would be um
relentlessly recruited from um like
relentlessly um like when Apple had
their electric car program they were
coet bombing Tesla with recruiting
calls. It was engineers just unplugged
their phones like it's just it's just I
>> I'm trying to get work done here.
>> Yeah. if I get, you know, one more call
from an Apple recruiter. Um, but but
they were they were their opening offer
without any interview with me like
double the compensation at Tesla. Um, so
um, so so we had a bit of the Tesla
Pixie Dust thing where it's like, oh, if
you hire a Tesla executive, you're
suddenly you're going to everything's
going to be successful. Um, and and I
fallen prey to the Pixie Dust uh, you
know, thing as well where it's like, oh,
we'll hire someone from Google or Apple
and they'll be immediately successful.
But not that that's not how it works. Um
you know people are people it's there's
not like magical pixie dust.
>> Yes.
>> So when we have the pixie dust problem
um we get relentlessly recruited um and
um
and then also being Tesla being um
engineering especially being primarily
in Silicon Valley uh it's it's easier
for people to just like they don't have
to change their life very much.
>> They can just you know
>> their commute's going to be the same.
Yes.
>> Um,
>> so how do you prevent that? How do you
prevent the pixie dust effect for
everyone's trying to coach all your
people?
>> Um, I don't think we can I don't think
there's much we can do to to yeah, stop
it. Uh but that that's like that's one
of the reasons why Tesla uh really being
in Silicon Valley um and uh and having
the Pixie Dust thing at the same time um
meant that uh there was just a very very
aggressive recruitment.
>> Being in Austin helps then.
>> Uh Austin, yeah, it still helps. Uh I
mean Tesla still has a majority of its
engineering in California. Um so um
the you know for getting engineers to
move I called the significant
significant other problem.
>> Yes.
>> So others have jobs. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So um for Starbase
that was particularly difficult.
>> Yes.
>> Since the odds of you know finding
[snorts] a non SpaceX job
>> pretty low. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite quite
difficult. I mean it's like a technology
monastery thing.
>> Um you know remote and mostly dudes.
>> [laughter]
>> But again, if you if you go
>> much of an improvement over myself,
[laughter]
>> yeah, if you go back but if you go back
to these people who've really
um
been very effective in a technical
capacity at Tesla, at SpaceX, and and
those sorts of places, what do you think
they have in common other than like is
it just that they're very sharp on the,
you know, rocketry or the, you know, the
technical foundation?
Or do you think it's something
organizational? It's something about
their ability to work with you. Is it
their ability to like be, you know,
flexible but not too flexible?
>> What makes a good sparring partner for
you?
>> I don't think a sparring partner. I
mean, if if somebody gets things done, I
I I love them and if they don't, I So,
it's pretty straightforward. It's not
like some idiosyncratic uh thing. Um, if
somebody executes well, um, I'm a huge
fan and if they don't, I'm not. Um, but
it's it's not about mapping to my is
idiosyncratic preferences. I'll
certainly try not to have it be mapping
to my idiosyncratic preferences.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, so yeah. Um,
yeah, but generally I think it's a good
idea to hire for um, uh, talent and
drive and trustworthiness. M
>> um
and I think uh goodness of heart is
important. Um I I'd wait at that at one
point. Um
>> so like are they are they a good person,
trustworthy
uh sort of smart, talented and
hardworking? Uh if so you can add domain
knowledge. U but those those fundamental
traits those fundamental properties you
cannot change. So mo most of the people
who um are at
Tesla and SpaceX did not come from the
aerospace industry or the auto industry.
What is most sad to change about your
management style as your companies have
scaled from 100 to thousand to 10,000
people. You're you know you're known for
this like very micromanagement just
getting into the details of things.
>> Nano management please. [laughter]
>> Pico management.
>> Um
>> phantom management.
So you're saying [laughter]
>> we're gonna go all the way down to
flanks Boston
all the way down to Heisenberg. I said
they were small. [laughter]
>> Yeah. How do you I mean are you are you
still able to get into details as much
as you want? Would your companies be
more successful if you could if they
were smaller? Like how do you how do you
think about that? Well, because I have a
fixed amount of time in the day, uh my
time is necessarily um diluted as things
grow and as the span of activity uh
increases. So, you know, um it it it
it's it's impossible for me to actually
be a micromanager because uh there's
that that would imply I have some like
thousands of hours per day. It is a
logical impossibility for me for me to
mic to micromanage things. Um so now
there are times when um I will drill
down into uh a specific issue because
that specific issue uh is the limiting
factor on uh the progress of the
company. Um and um but the the reason
for drilling into that that some very
detailed item is because it is the it is
the limiting factor not it's not
arbitrarily d drilling into you tiny
things. Um and and like I said obviously
from a time standpoint it is physically
impossible for me to arbitrarily uh go
into tiny things that don't matter and
that would and and that would result in
failure but sometimes the tiny things um
are decisive in victory.
>> Famously you switched the uh starship
design from composits to steel.
>> Yes.
>> And you made that decision like that
wasn't a you know people were going
around they're like oh we found
something better boss. like that was you
encouraging people against some
resistance. Can you tell us how you came
to that whole composite steel switch?
[snorts] Uh yeah. So desperation I'd
say. Um the um
originally yeah we were going to make
stashup out of uh carbon fiber. Um and
um car fiber is pretty expensive like
the the the the
can generally uh when you do volume
production you can get any given thing
to be to start to approach its material
cost. The problem with with carbon
fibers is that material cost is still
very high. Um
um so
um it's about it's about 50 times
particularly if you go for a high
strength specialized carbon fiber that
can handle um cryogenic oxygen it's it's
it's like quot roughly 50 times the cost
of steel um and at least uh in theory it
would be lighter. People generally think
of steel as being heavy and carbon fiber
as being uh light. Um, and for room
temperature room temperature
applications,
um, you know, like say, uh, more or less
room temperature applications like a
Formula 1 car, uh, static aeros
structure or any any kind of aeros
structure really, uh, is is going to
you're going to probably be better off
with the carbon fiber. Um, now the
problem is that we were trying to make
this enormous rocket out of carbon fiber
and, uh, our progress was extremely slow
>> and it had been picked in the first
place just because it's light.
Yes. Um like at first glance
um like most people would think that the
the the choice for making uh something
light would be carbon fiber. Um the um
now now the thing is that um
we when you make something very enormous
out of carbon fiber and then you try to
have the carbon fiber um be efficiently
cured. anything not not room temperature
because like you've got you know
sometimes you got like 50 pies of of of
carbon fiber and and carbon fiber is
really carbon string and glue. Um and uh
and you in order to have um high
strength you need an autoclave. So
something that that can that's
essentially high pressure oven. And if
if um if you have something that's a
gigantic uh the oven's got to be bigger
than the rockwood. Um, so we'll be
trying to make the the an autoclave
that's bigger than any autoclave that's
ever existed. Uh, or do room temperature
cure, which takes a long time and and
has issues. Um, but but the fundamental
issue is that we're just making very
slow progress uh with uh with cotton
fiber. Um,
so um I I think the meta question is u
why it had to be you who made that
decision. There's many engineers on your
team.
>> Yeah. How did the team not arrive at
Steel? Yeah, exactly. This is a part of
a broader question like understanding
your comparative advantage at your
companies.
>> Um, so it was because we were making
very slow progress with with carbon
fiber. I was like, "Okay, we've got to
try something else." Now, for the Falcon
9, the the primary airframe is made of
aluminum lithium, which is has very very
good strength weight. Um and um actually
it has uh about the same maybe maybe
better strength weight for its
application than carbon fiber. But
aluminum lithium is very difficult to
work with. In order to weld it you have
to do something called friction st
welding where you join the you join the
metal without it entering the liquid
phase. Um so it's kind of wild that you
could do that. Uh but with this
particular type of welding you can do
that. Um
but uh it's very difficult to like say
let's say you want to make a
modification or attach something to um
aluminum lithium. You now have to use
mechanical attachment with seals. Um you
can't uh weld it on. Um so we want to I
want to avoid using aluminum lithium for
the primary structure for uh for
Starship. um and uh and and there was
this very special grade of uh carbon
fiber that that had you know very good
mass properties. So with rock rocket
you're really trying to maximize the
percentage of the of the rocket that is
propellant minimize the the mass
obviously and um the but like I said
we're making very slow progress um and
and and I said at this rate we're never
going to get to Mars so we're going to
think of something else um I didn't want
to use aluminum lithium because of the
difficulty of friction still welding um
especially doing that at at scale it was
hard enough um at 3.6 m in diameter, let
alone at 9 m or above. Um then um
it says, well, what about steel? And and
so the now I I I had a clue here because
some of the early um US rockets had used
very thin steel. The Atlas rockets had
used a steel balloon tank. Um
so it's not like steel never been used
before. It actually had been used. Um
and when you look at the the material
properties of stainless steel um
especially uh very uh if it's been
very like full hard strain hardened
stainless steel uh at cryogenic
temperature uh the the strength weight
is actually similar to carbon fiber. So
if if you look at the so if you look at
the material properties at room
temperature um it looks like the steel
is uh is going to be twice as heavy. But
if you look at the material properties
at cryogenic temperature of full hard
steel stainless of of particular grades
uh then the the you actually get to a
similar strength weight as common fiber
and and in the case of Starship both the
fuel and the oxidizer are cryogenic. So
for for uh Falcon 9, the fuel is rocket
propellant grade kerosene basically pure
like a a very pure form of jet fuel.
>> Um which is but but that is that is
roughly room temperature. Um although we
do actually we do actually chill it
slightly below we chill it like a beer.
Um delicious.
>> Yeah, we we do chill it but um but but
it's not cryogenic. In fact, if we made
it cryogenic, it would just turn to wax.
So um but for Sasha the it's liquid
methane and and liquid oxygen they they
uh they're liquid at at similar
temperatures. Uh so uh so basically
almost the entire primary structure is a
cryogenic temperature. So then you've
got uh u a 300 series stainless that's
that's um strain hardened uh because
it's at almost all things at crying
temperature actually has a similar
strength to weight as uh carbon fiber
but costs uh 50 times less than nor
material and is very easy to work with.
You you can weld stainless steel
outdoors.
You could smoke a cigar while welding
stainless steel. It's it's like it's
it's very resilient.
>> Um you you can modify it easily. It's
it's uh if you want if you want to
attach something, you just weld it right
on. So um very easy to work with
uh very low cost um and um like I said
at cryogenic temperature, similar
strength to weight uh to carbon fiber.
Um then when you factor in that uh that
we don't need we don't we we have a much
reduced uh heat shield mass uh because
the melting point of steel is much
greater than the melting point of
aluminum. Um it's about twice the
melting point of alum aluminum and
>> so you can just run the rocket bunch
hotter.
>> Yes. So especially for the ship um which
is coming in like a fl a blazing meteor
uh it is uh the you you you can greatly
reduce the mass of the heat shield um so
that so you can call it cut the mass of
the windward u part of the heat shield
in maybe in half
>> and you don't need any heat shielding on
the on the leeward side. Um so um
the the net net result is actually the
steel rocket weighs less than the carbon
fiber rocket
>> because the the resin in the carbon
fiber rocket uh uh
um starts to melt. Um
so basically carbon fiber and aluminum
have about the same operating
temperature uh capabilities um and
whereas steel can operate at twice
temperature. I mean, these are very
rough approximations. People will
>> I won't go to the rocket face. What I'm
like people will say, "Oh, he said it's
twice. It's actually it's actually
point8." Shut up, [__]
>> That's what the main comment's going to
be about. Yeah.
>> God damn it. Okay. The point is the the
actually in retrospect the the we should
have started with done steel in the
beginning. It was dumb not to do steel.
>> Okay. But to play this back to you, what
I'm hearing is that steel was a riskier,
less proven path other than the early US
rockets versus carbon fiber was like a
worse but more proven out path. And so
you need to be the one to push for, hey,
we're going to do this riskier path and
just figure it out. And so you were
fighting like a sort of conservatism in
a sense.
>> Um that's why I initially said like that
the issue is that we weren't making fast
enough progress. we were having trouble
making even um a small barrel section of
the carbon fiber um that didn't have
wrinkles in it.
>> Um so uh because at at at that large
scale you have to have many pies many
sort of layers of the carbon fiber. Um
you've got to cure it and you've got to
cure it in such a way that it it doesn't
um have any wrinkles or or defects. The
carbon fiber is much less resilient than
than steel. It has much it's less
toughness. Um so like like stainless
steel will will stretch and and and bend
the carbon fiber will will tend to
shatter.
>> Um so um so toughness being the area
under the stress drain curve um so that
you're generally going to have to do
better with steel um or stainless steel
to be precise.
>> One other starship question. Um so I
visited um Starbase I think it was two
years ago with Seller and that was
awesome. It was very cool to see in a
whole bunch of ways. One thing I noticed
was that people really took pride in the
simplicity of things where you know
everyone wanted to tell you how Starship
is just a big soda can and you know
we're hiring welders and you know if you
can weld in any industrial project you
can weld here but um there's a lot of
pride in the simplicity and
>> it's well startup was a very complicated
>> rocket. So that that's what I'm getting
at is are things simpler or are they
complex?
>> I think maybe just what they're trying
to say is that you know you don't have
to have like prior experience in the
rocket industry to work on Sasha.
>> Um you know somebody just needs to be
>> you know smart and work hard
>> um and be trustworthy then they can work
on a rocket. They don't they don't need
prior rocket experience. Starship is is
the most complicated machine ever made
by humans by a long shot.
>> In in what regards?
>> Anything really? I'd say there isn't a
more complex machine. Um
there Yeah, I mean I I'd say that there
there pretty much any any project I can
think of would be easier than this. Um
and and that's why no one has made a
rapidly reusable nobody has ever made a
re fully reusable orbital rocket. It's a
very very hard problem.
Um
I mean many smart people have tried
before very smart people with immense
resources and they failed. Um so and we
haven't succeeded yet. uh you know
Falcon is partially reusable but the
upper stages are um Starship version
three I think this design
that it it can be fully reusable and
that full reusability is what will
enable us to become a multilanet
civilization. Can you say about the
>> I don't I'm like I said like I
any technical problem even like a hydron
collider or something like that is
easier following than this.
>> We we spent a lot of time on
bottlenecks. Can you say what the
current Starship bottlenecks are even at
a high level?
>> I mean trying to make it not explode
generally [snorts]
>> that old chestnut
>> really wants to explode. Um
>> those combustion we've had two bristers
explode on the test. Um, one obliterated
obliterated the entire test facility.
Um, so it only takes like one mistake
and and I mean the amount of energy
contained in in a Starship [snorts] is
insane.
>> And so is that why it's harder than
Falcon? It's because it's just more
energy.
>> It's a lot of new technology. Um, it's
it's p it's pushing the performance
envelope. Um, the Raptor 3 engine is a
very very advanced engine. By far the
best rocket edition ever made. Um but it
desperately wants to blow up. I mean
just to put things in perspective here
on liftoff um the the rocket is
generating over 100 g of power.
It's 20% of US
>> electricity. So insane.
>> That's a great comparison.
>> While not exploding
>> sometimes.
>> Sometimes but sometimes. Yeah. So I was
like how does it not explode? there's
there's a you know thousands of ways
that it could explode and and only one
way that that that it doesn't. So So we
want it to not really not explode but
but fly reliably
uh
on a daily basis like once per hour and
obviously you know blows up a lot. It's
it's very difficult to maintain that
floor cings.
>> Yes.
>> Um and [snorts] then and then I'm going
to say like what's the what's the single
biggest remaining problem for Starship?
It's uh having the heat shield be
reusable. Um that such that the no no
one has ever made a reusable orbital
heat shield. Um so the the sh the heat
shield's got to make it through the
ascent phase without shocking a bunch of
tiles. Um and then it's going to come
back in and also not lose a bunch of
tiles or or overheat the the main the
main uh airframe.
>> Isn't that hard? is kind of
fundamentally a consumable.
>> Uh well, yes, but your brake pads in
your car are also consumable, but they
last a very long time.
>> Fair. Okay.
>> So, it just needs to last a very long
time. Um
but that's it just you try I mean we
have brought the ship back and had it do
a soft landing in the ocean. I've done
that a few times, but but it lost a lot
of tiles, you know, and you know, it was
[snorts]
not reusable without a lot of work.
>> Yeah.
>> So, even though it did land it did come
to soft landing, it it was would not
have been reusable without a lot of
work. Um and and that so it's not really
reusable in that sense. So, that's
that's the biggest problem that remains
is fully reusable heat shield. Um,
>> so so like if you want to be able to
land it, uh, refill propellant and fly
again, uh, without, you know, you can't
go do this laborious inspection of, you
know, 40,000 tiles type sort of thing. I
I I'm curious how you drive like when
when I read biographies of yours, it
just uh it seems like you're just able
to drive the sense of like urgency and
drive the sense of like this is the this
is the thing that can scale. Um, and I
I'm curious why you think other
organizations of your like SpaceX and
Tesla are really big companies now and
you're still able to keep that culture.
What goes wrong with other companies
such that they're not able to do that?
>> I don't know. Um,
>> but like today you said you had like a
bunch of SpaceX meetings like what what
is it that you're doing there that's
like keeping that
>> that's adding urgency?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, I don't know. I guess I guess uh
the
urgency is going to come from whoever's
leading the company. So if my sense of
urgency, I have like a maniacal sense of
urgency. So
>> that maniacal sense of urgency projects
through the rest of the company.
>> Is it because of consequences? They're
like if you know Elon said a crazy
deadline, but if I don't get it, I know
what happens to me. Is it just um you're
able to identify bottlenecks and get rid
of them so people can move fast? Like
how do you how do you think about why
your companies are able to move fast?
Yeah, I'm constantly addressing the
limiting factor.
So, um
I mean I mean on the deadlines front I I
mean I generally actually try to
aim for a deadline that that I at least
think is at the 50th percentile. So it's
it's not it's not like an impossible
deadline, but but it's the most
aggressive deadline I can think of that
could be achieved with 50% probability.
Um which means that it'll be late half
the time.
Um
and um
but whatever like there is like a law of
gases expansion that applies to
schedules like whatever given whatever
schedule you you like if if you you said
we're going to do this something in like
5 years which to me is like infinity
time. Um it it will expand to fully
available schedule and it will take 5
years. um you know like there's like
there there's a physical limit
like that like physics will limit how
fast you can do certain things like so
like scaling up manufacturing there's
like there's a rate which you can move
the atoms um and and scale manufacturing
that's why you can't like instantly make
you know a million of something million
a year or something uh you've you've got
to design manufacturing line you got to
bring it up you got to ride the scurve
of production um So yeah, I guess like
like what can I say that's that's that's
actually helpful to people. Um
I I think generally um a maniacal sense
of urgency is is a is very big deal. Um
so um and and you want to have you want
to have you want to have a an an
aggressive schedule. Um, and then you
and you and you want to figure out what
the limiting factor is at any point in
time and and help the team address that
limiting factor.
>> Can you maybe talk about the So,
Starlink was slowly in the works for
many years. Uh, and
>> yeah, we talked about it all the way in
the beginning of the company.
>> Yeah. And so then there was a team you
had built in Redmond and then at one
point you decided
this team is just not cutting it. But
again, how did you like
it went for a few years slowly and so
why did it why didn't you act earlier
and why did you act when you did? Like
why was that the right moment at which
to act?
>> I mean I had I have these very detailed
um engineering reviews weekly. Um that
that's that that's maybe a very unusual
level of granularity. Um, I don't know
anyone who runs a company or at least a
manufacturing company that that goes
into level of detail that that I go
into. Um, so so it's it's not it's not
as though like I have a pretty good
understanding of what's actually going
on.
>> Mhm.
>> Because we we we we go we go through
things in detail. Um, and I'm a big
believer in skip level meetings where
the individuals in instead of having the
person that reports to me say things,
it's everyone that reports to them um
says something um in in the technical
review. Um and um and and there can't be
um advanced preparation. So otherwise
you you're going to get u you know
glazed um as I say these days.
>> Yeah, exactly. Very gen Z of view.
>> Very generous. You just like call them
randomly like
>> No, just go around the room and everyone
provides an update.
>> Okay.
>> Um so, uh I mean it's it's a lot of
information to keep in your head because
um you you've got a you you've got then
say if you have meetings weekly or twice
weekly, you you've got a snapshot of
what that person said. Um and and and
you can and you can then you know plot
the progress points. um you can sort of
mentally plot the points on a curve and
say are we converging to a solution or
not um or or are we you know like I I'll
take drastic action
uh only when I conclude that um success
is not in a set of possible outcomes. Um
so when I say okay when when I finally
reach the conclusion that okay unless
drastic action is done we have no no
chance of success then I must take
drastic action
and so that's that's I came to that
conclusion in 2018 took drastic action
and and fix the problem. How how many um
you know you you've got many many
companies and in each of them it sounds
like you do this kind of deep
engineering understanding of what the
relevant bottlenecks are so you can do
these um reviews with people.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
you've been able to scale it up to five,
six, seven companies. Within one of
these companies you have many different
mini companies within them. What
determines the maxim? Could you have
like 80 companies?
>> 80? No. But like you can you have so
many already like that's that's already
remarkable
>> by this current number. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Uh no. So um
>> we can barely keep one coming together.
>> Um
near like it it depends on situation. Um
so
um I I actually don't don't have regular
meetings uh with flooring company. So
that boring company's sort of cruising
along like look if basically if
something is working well and making
good progress then there's no point in
me spending time on it. So I actually uh
allocate time according to where where
the where the limiting factor or the
problem where are things problematic and
um or where are we pushing against uh
like what what is holding us back you
know I I focus risk of saying the words
too many times the limiting factor
Um,
so, so basically if something's go like
the irony is if something's going really
well, um, they don't see much of me, but
if something is going badly, they'll see
a lot of me.
>> Something or not even badly, it's it's
like if something's a limiting factor,
>> it's a limiting factor. Exactly. It's
not exactly going badly, but it's the
thing that's it's it's the thing that we
need to make go faster to. And so when
something's a limiting factor at SpaceX
or Tesla, are you like talking weekly
and daily with the engineer that's
working on it? How how does that
actually work?
>> Most things that are learning factor are
um weekly and some things are twice
weekly. So the the AI5 chip review is
twice weekly and and so it's every
Tuesday and Saturdays
>> um is is the chip review.
>> Is it open-ended in how long it goes?
Uh technically yes, but uh
usually it's it's like two or three
hours.
>> So I mean sometimes less. It's it
depends on on how much information
you've got to go through.
>> Yeah. Well, that's another thing. Again,
I'm just trying to tease out the the
differences uh here cuz the outcomes
seem quite different and so I think it's
interesting to note what inputs are
different and it feels like the
corporate world one like you're saying
just the CEO doing engineering reviews
does not always happen despite the fact
that that is the you know what the
company is doing. Um, but then time is
often pretty finely sliced into, you
know, halfhour meetings or even 15-inute
meetings. And it seems like you hold
more open-ended
we're talking about it until we figure
it out type meetings. Yeah.
>> Sometimes, but most of them seem to more
or less stay on time. Um
so um
I mean to today's uh Starship
engineering review went a bit longer um
because there there were more topics to
discuss. Um
yeah trying to figure out how to scale
to a million plus tons to orbit per year
is quite challenging. C
>> can I answer a question? So you you said
about um Optimus and AI that they're
going to result in doubledigit growth
rates within a matter of years.
>> Oh, like the economy.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> yes,
>> I think I think that's right.
>> What was the point of the Doge cuts if
the economy is going to grow so much?
>> Well, I think like waste and fraud are
not good things to have, you know. Um,
I I I was actually pretty worried about
I I I guess
uh I mean I I think in the absence of AI
and robotics, we're actually totally
screwed. Uh because the national debt is
piling up like crazy. Um now our
interest payments, the interest payments
to national debt exceed the military
budget which is a trillion dollars. So
over a trillion dollars just in interest
payments. Um, you know, that was like I
was like, okay, pretty concerned about
that. Maybe if I spend some time, we can
slow down the bankruptcy of the United
States. Um, and give us enough time for
the AI and robots to, you know, help
solve the national debt or not help
solve, it's the only thing that could
solve the national debt. Like, we are
1,000% going to go bankrupt as a country
and fail as a country without AI and
robots. Nothing else will solve the
national debt. Um, and so, so we we'd
like to well, we just need we need
enough time to get build the AI and
robots uh to and not go bankrupt before
then. I
>> I I guess the thing I'm curious about is
when Doge starts, you have this enormous
um ability to enact reform and
>> not that enormous.
>> Sure. Sure. But to totally by your point
that like it's important that AI and
robotics drive product improvements,
drive GDP growth, but why not just
directly go after the things you were
pointing out, you know, like the the
tariffs on certain components or whether
it's like permitting.
>> I'm not the president
and and very hard to cut to cut to to
even even to cut things that are obvious
waste and fraud like like ridiculous
waste and fraud. Um what I discovered
that is it it's
extremely difficult even to cut very
obvious ways on fraud um from the
government um because the the the
government has to operate on a on like
who's complaining like if if and if you
cut off payments to fraudsters they
immediately come up with the most
sympathetic sounding uh reasons to
continue the payment. They they don't
say please keep the fraud going. They
say, you know, it's they're like, you're
killing baby pandas. Like, meanwhile,
there's no baby pandas are dying.
They're just making it up. Um, the
forces are capable of of coming up with
extremely compelling sort of
heart-wrenching stories that are false,
but nonetheless sound uh sympathetic and
that that's what happened. Um, and uh so
it's like
perhaps I should have known better. Um
and uh
but I thought wait let's take a let's
let's let's try to cut some amount of of
waste and core from the government.
Maybe there shouldn't be you know 20
million people uh marked as alive in
social security who are indefinitely
dead and over the age of 115.
The oldest American is 114.
So, it's safe to say if somebody's 115
and marked as live in the social
security database, um something is
there's either a typo. So, like somebody
should call them and say, "We we seem to
have your birthday wrong or or uh or or
we need to mark you as dead." [laughter]
>> One of the two things.
>> Very intimidating call to get.
>> Well, so it seems like a reasonable
thing. Um and if if like say their
birthday is in the future um [laughter]
and they have you know a small business
administration loan and their birthday
is 2165
um we either again have a typo or we
have fraud. Um [laughter]
so we say we appear to have gotten the
century of your birth incorrect
>> or a great plot for a movie.
>> Yes. This is this this is when I when I
mean about ludicrous fraud that's what I
meant ludicrous fraud.
>> Were those people getting payments? Some
some were getting payments from social
security but but but the main fraud
vector uh was to mark somebody as alive
in social security and then use every
other government payment system uh to uh
basically to to do fraud because what
those other government payment systems
do would do they will simply do an are
you alive check to the social security
database.
>> It's a it's a bank shot.
>> What would you estimate is like the
total uh amount of fraud from this
mechanism. Um my guess is and and other
by the way the the government
accountability office has done these
estimates before. I'm not the only one
who's coming out of this you know in
fact I think they they did the GAO did
analysis a rough estimate of fraud
during the Biden administration and
calculated at roughly half a trillion
dollars.
>> So don't take my word for it. Take it a
report issued during the Biden
administration. How about that
>> from this social security mechanism?
>> Uh it's it's one of many. It's important
to appreciate that the the government
does not is very ineffective at at
stopping fraud because uh it's it's not
like like if it was a company like like
stopping fraud, you've got a motivation
because it's affecting the earnings of
your company. Uh but the government just
just they just print more money. Um, so
it's not uh
like you you need you need caring and
competence and these are in short supply
at at the federal level.
>> Um,
yeah, sorry. I mean, when you go to the
DMV, do you think, wow, this is a
bastion of competence. [snorts] Um,
well, now imagine it's worse than the
DMV because it's a DMV that can print
money.
>> So, was it not possible? At least the
state level DMVs uh need to the states
more or less need to stay within their
budget to go bankrupt. But the federal
government just prints more money.
>> Was it not possible to cut that if
there's a catchy half a trillion of
fraud? Why was it not possible to cut
all that?
>> Uh because when when as soon as you we
did we we actually no
you you you you really have to stand
back and
reccalibrate your expectations for
competence. uh because uh you you're
operating in a world where you know you
you you've got to sort of make ends meet
like you know you got to pay your bills,
you got to you know
>> buy the microphones.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Um so so you you
you if you don't have it's it's not like
there's a giant largely uncaring monster
bureaucracy. It's not even and and and a
bunch of
uh monacistic computers that are just
that are just sending payments. Um like
one of the things that that that the
Doge team did there was and it sounds so
simple uh that that probably will save
um
let's say 100 billion maybe 200 billion
a year um is simply requiring that
payments from the main treasury computer
which is called PM it's like payment
accounts master or something like that
there's 5 trillion payments a year um
requiring that any payment go that goes
out have a payment um appropriation
code, make it mandatory, not optional,
and that you have anything at all in the
comment field.
Um, because
you see you have to recalibrate how dumb
things are.
>> You think were being sent out with no
appropriation code,
not not checking back to any
congressional appropriation, and no
explanation.
And this is why the the Department of
War, formerly the Department of Defense,
cannot pass an audit because the
information is literally not there.
Recalibrate your expectations.
>> I want to better understand the South
Australian number because there was an
IG report in 2024.
>> How you must like why is it so low?
>> Um maybe. But uh which found that like
over seven years this the social
security fraud they estimated was like
70 billions over 7 years. So like 10
billion a year. So I'd be curious to see
what like the other 490 billion is.
Federal government expenditures are 7
and a half trillion a year.
>> Yeah.
>> Um how what what percentage how
competent do you think government is?
>> The the discretionary spending there is
like 15%.
>> Yeah. But but it doesn't matter. Most of
the ford is non-discretionary. It's it's
basically a fraudulent Medicare,
Medicaid, uh social security, uh uh uh
you know um
disability. Uh it's there's there's a
zillion government payments. Yeah.
>> Um and and a bunch of these payments are
in fact u
they're uh block transfers to the
states. So the federal government
doesn't even have the information in a
lot of cases to even see know if there's
fraud. Let's consider let's like
reductio Adam sodom the government the
government is perfect and has no fraud.
What is your probability estimate of
that?
>> I mean zero. Okay. So then would you say
that foreign waste that the government
uh is
has is 90%.
That also would be quite generous. But
if if it's only 90% that means that
there's $750 billion a year of waste and
fraud and it's not 90%. It's not 90%
effective. This seems like a strange way
to first principle is the amount of
fraud in the government. just like how
much do you think there is and then uh
uh I anyways we don't know how to do it
live but I'd be curious like see
>> you know a lot about fraud at Stripe
people are constantly trying to do
fraud.
>> Yeah but as you say it's like a little
bit of a um we've really ground it down
but it's a little bit of a different
problem space because we're dealing with
a much more heterogeneous set of fraud
vectors here than we are
>> Yeah. But I mean I mean at tribe you you
you you have high confidence and you try
hard. Um you have high competence and
high caring but still fraud is non non
zero. Um now now now imagine it's at a
much bigger scale. Um there's much less
competence and much less carrying.
You know bank PayPal back in the day we
we try to manage forward down to about
1% of of the payment volume. Um and that
was very difficult. took a tremendous
amount of competence and caring to uh
get fraud merely to 1%.
Um now imagine that that you have an
organization where there's much less
caring and much less confidence. It's
[snorts] going to be much more than 1%.
>> How do you feel now looking back on um
kind of politics and and doing stuff
there where it feels like from the
outside in the two you know two things
have been quite impactful. one the
America Pack and two um the acquisition
of of well Twitter at the time but also
it seems like there was a bunch of
heartache and so what's your what's your
grading of the whole experience
>> well um
I think I think those things needed to
be done to
maximize the probability that the future
is good
>> um So
um but but politics generally is very
tribal. Um and and it's it's very
tribal. It's and people lose their
objectivity usually with politics like
they they generally have trouble seeing
the good on the other side or the bad in
their own side. That's generally how it
goes. Um that that I guess was one of
the things that surprised me the most is
you you often simply cannot reason with
people
>> um if they're in one tribe or the other.
they they simply believe that everything
their tribe does is good and anything
the other political tribe does is bad.
Um and persuading them is
otherwise is almost impossible. Um, so
anyway, but um
I think I think overall
those actions
um acquiring Twitter,
getting Trump elected even though, you
know, it makes a lot of people angry. Um
I think those I think those actions are
good for were good for civilization.
>> Um yeah, how does it feed into the
future you're excited about?
Well, um, America needs to contain,
America needs to be strong enough to
last long enough to, um, extend life to
other planets and to
get, I guess, AI and robotics to the
point where we can ensure that the
future is good. Um like on the other
hand if if if we were to descend into
um say communism or or some situation
where where the state was extremely
oppressive um that that would mean that
we we might not be able to become
multilanetary
um and we might this the state might um
you know stamp out um our progress in AI
and robotics. How do you feel about um
uh you know Optimus, Grock, etc. are
going to be leveraged by and not just
yours any revenue maximizing company's
products will be leveraged by the
government over time? Um how does this
concern manifest in what private
companies should be willing to give
governments? What kinds of guard rails
should like should you know the should
um AI models be uh um made to do
whatever the government that has
contracted them out to do asked them to
do? Um should like should should Grog
get to say like actually even the
military wants to do X. No, the Grock
will not do that. I I pro probably the
biggest danger of AI or maybe the
biggest danger of fa for for AI and
robotics going wrong wrong is is
government
interesting you know um
I mean the the way like people who are
opposed to corporations or or or worried
about corporations should um really
worry about the most about government
cuz government is just a corporation in
the limit. It's a government. It is it
is it is government is just the biggest
corporation with a monopoly on violence.
Um so I always find it like a strange
dichotomy where where people would think
corporations are bad but the government
is good when the government is simply
the biggest and and and worst
corporation.
But people have that dichotomy. They
somehow think at the same time that
government can be good but corporations
bad. And this is not true. corporations
are have better morality than the
government.
>> It is.
>> So I I I actually think it's uh
you know that's uh that that is a thing
to be worried about. It's like if the
you know should should if the government
should not like the government could
potentially use AI and robotics to
suppress the population
like that is a serious concern.
>> I as a guy building AI and robotics how
do you how do you like how do you
prevent that? Uh well I think like if
you have a limited government um
if you limit the powers of government
which is like really what the US
constitution is intended to do is
intended to limit the powers of
government then then uh you're probably
going to have a better outcome than if
you have more government.
So
>> will be available to all governments
right?
>> Yeah about all governments. Um I mean
it's difficult to predict the like I
said like what what's what's the end end
point or like what is what is many years
in the future but it's difficult to
predict the the sort of path along along
that way. Um like if civilization
progresses
AI will vastly exceed the sum of all
human intelligence and and there will be
far more robots than humans.
um along the way what happens
it's very difficult to predict.
>> I mean I mean it seems like one thing
you could do is just say um uh you are
not allowed to whatever government
you're not allowed to use Optimus to do
XYZ just write out like a policy. I mean
you you I think you treated recently
that Grock should have a moral
constitution. Um and one of those things
could be that we we limit what
governments are allowed to do with this
advanced technology.
>> I mean yeah we we can do what is what
I mean
technically I mean if if the politicians
pass a law uh then and they can enforce
that law then it's hard to not do that
law. You know the the best thing we can
have is is is limited government uh
where um you know you have you have the
appropriate cross checks between the
executive judicial and um legislative
branches. I I guess the the reason I'm
curious about it is this like at some
point it seems like the limits will come
from you, right? Like you've got the
Optimus, you've got the space GPUs,
you've got the
>> you think I will be the boss of the
government
>> or you will get the you will like the I
mean already it's the case with SpaceX
that for things that are crucial to the
um uh like the government really cares
about getting certain satellites up in
space whatever like it needs SpaceX. Uh
it is the it is the um a necessary
contractor and you are in the process of
building more and more of the um uh the
technological components of the future
that that that will have an analogous
role in different industries and you
could have this ability to like set some
policy that um you know suppressing
classical liberalism in any way. I my
companies will not help in in any way
with that or you know some policy like
that.
Um, I I will do my best to ensure that
anything that's within my control
maximizes the good outcome for humanity.
>> I think anything else would be
shortsighted. Um, because obviously I'm
part of humanity. So, um, I like humans.
Um,
>> pro human pro.
>> Um, you you you've mentioned that Dojo 3
will be used for space-based compute.
Um,
>> [laughter]
>> Do you really read my uh what I say?
>> I don't know if you know Twitter, but I
know you lot. [laughter]
You have a lot of followers.
>> Big giveaway.
>> Um how do you
>> how does you have discern my secrets and
I post them.
>> How how do you design this chip for
space? What like Yeah. What changes?
>> Well, I guess you want to design it to
be um more radiation tolerant and run at
a higher temperature. Uh so you can um
you know roughly if you increase the um
operating temperature by 20% in degrees
Kelvin you can cut your radiator mass in
half. Um so
running at a higher temperature is is
helpful in in space. Um
there I mean there's various things you
can do for shielding the memory and
but like neural nets are going to be
very resilient to bit flips. Yeah. So
like most of what what happens from a
radiation is like random bit flips. Um
but like if you've got like you know a
multi- trillion parameter model and you
get a few flips doesn't matter. Um it's
it's much like curistic programs are
going to be much more sensitive to flips
than um some giant parameter file. Um,
so I just designed it to run hot and um
I think you pretty much do it the same
way that you do things on Earth apart
from make it run hotter.
>> Um, I mean the solar array is most of
the weight on the satellite. Is there a
way to make the um the GPUs even more
powered ends than what Nvidia and TPUs
and etc are planning on doing that would
you know be especially privileged in the
space-based world?
Well, I mean the basic math is like
um if you can do about a kilowatt per
reticle um and then you'd need um
you know 100 million
full retical chips uh to do 100 gawatt.
>> Yeah.
So
yeah, depending what your yield
assumptions are, you know, um that that
tells you how many trips you need to
make.
Um, but cool. You need if you want if if
if you're going to have 100 gigawatts of
power, you need, you know, 100 million
chips running that that are running a
kilowatt sustained uh quad per reticle.
>> Um
>> basic math
>> 100 million chips. Uh it depends on
Yeah. If if you if you look at the die
size of something like black wisps or
something and how many you can get out
of a wafer, you can get like um on the
order of dozens or less uh per wafer. So
you're basically you're this is a world
where
>> if we're putting that out a every single
year you're producing millions millions
of wafers a month.
>> Um that's the plan with Terapab millions
of wafers a month of advanced process
notes. Yeah, it's it's got to be some
number north of a million. I think
>> you got to do the memory, too.
>> Yeah. Are you going to make a memory f?
>> I think the teraf's got to do memory.
It's got to do logic, memory, and
packaging.
>> I'm very curious how somebody like gets
started. This is like the most
complicated thing man has ever made. And
obviously, like if anybody's up to the
task, you're up to the task. Like what
do you So, you realize it's a bottleneck
and you go to your engineers and like
what is the next like what what do you
tell them to do? [laughter]
I want a million papers a month in 2030.
What is the next like what do you
>> That's right.
>> Do you like call ASML? Like what is
>> Ask what I want. [laughter]
>> What is the next step?
>> That's so much to ask.
>> Well, um we make a little fab uh and see
what happens. Uh make our mistakes at a
small scale and then make a big one.
>> Is a little fab done or is it
>> No, it's not done. Which I mean people
would not keep that cat in the bag.
[laughter]
that cat's going to come out of the
back. It'll be like drones hovering over
the bloody thing, you know. You'll be
able to like see it construction
progress on X, right? You know, in real
time. Um, so no, we we I mean, listen, I
don't know. We could just flounder in
failure to be clear. It's like not uh
success is not guaranteed, but um
since we want to try to make uh you know
something like a 100 million
Yeah, we we need we want 100 gigs of
power and 100 100 that trips that can
take 100 gawatt, right? So call it, you
know, but yeah, by by 2030. So then
um
we'll take as many chips as our
suppliers will give us. I've said this
to I've actually said this to TSMC and
Samsung and Micron. It's like please
build your more fabs faster. Um, and we
will guarantee to buy the output of
those fabs. Um, so so that they're
already like moving as fast as they as
they can. Like it's it's not like to be
clear, it's not like us
take, you know, it's not like u either
it's it's not like it's us plus them.
You know,
>> there's an narrative that the people
doing AI want a very large number of,
you know, chips as quickly as possible.
And then many of the input suppliers,
the fabs, but also, you know, the
turbine manufacturers
are not ramping up production very
quickly. And the explan Yeah. And the
the explanation you hear is that they're
dispositionally
conservative. You know, they're
Taiwanese or German as the, you know,
story may be. And they just like don't
believe the like is that really the
explanation or is there something else?
Well, I mean, it's reasonable to like if
somebody's been in say the computer
memory business for uh
30 or 40 years
>> and they've seen cycles,
>> they've seen like boom and bust like 10
times.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, so so like that's a lot of
layers of scar tissue, you know? So,
it's like it's like during the boom
times looks like everything's going to
be great forever and then then then the
crash happens and then they're
desperately trying to avoid bankruptcy.
Um and and then there's another boom and
another crash.
>> Are there other [laughter] are there
other ideas you think others should go
pursue that you're not for whatever
reasons right now?
>> Um [sighs and gasps] I mean there are a
few companies that are that are pursuing
like uh new ways of doing jobs.
>> Um uh but they're just not scaling fast.
>> I I don't even mean within AI. I mean
just generally
>> I'd say like people should just should
do the thing that where they find that
they're highly motivated to do that
thing. Mhm.
>> As opposed to, you know, something
something some idea that that I suggest,
but they should do the thing that they
find personally interesting and
motivating to do.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
but but you know, going back to the
limiting factor,
use that phrase about 100 times. Um
the the current limiting factor that I
see in the time frame you know in the
sort of 20
29 20 like in in the in the three 3 to 4
year time frame um it's chips. Um in in
the one-year time frame it's it's energy
power production electricity.
like it's it's not clear to me that
there's enough
um usable electricity to turn on all the
the AI chips that are being made. Um
towards the end of this year, I think
people are going to have real trouble
turning on like the chip output will
exceed the the ability to turn chips on.
>> What's your plan to deal with that
world?
>> Well, we're trying to accelerate
electricity production.
Um, I I guess that's that's maybe one of
the reasons that um
XAI will be maybe the leader, hopefully
the leader, um, is that we'll be able to
turn on more chips than other people can
turn on faster.
Um, because we're we're we're good at
hardware [snorts] and and and and
generally the the innovations from the
corporations that me that call
themselves labs. um the the ideas tend
to flow like it's it's rare to see that
there's like more than about a six-month
difference um between um like the ideas
uh travel back and forth um with the
people. So, so I think you you sort of
hit the hardware wall and um and then
whatever whichever company can scale
hardware the fastest will
be the leader and so I think XCI will be
able to scale hardware the fastest and
therefore most likely will be the
leader. you you you joked or you know um
were self-conscious about uh you know
using the uh the limiting factor phrase
again but I actually think there's
something deep here and if you look at a
lot of the things we've touched on over
the course of it maybe kind of a good
note to end on like
if you think of a scinesscent lower
agency
company it would have some bottleneck
and not really be doing anything about
it. Um, you know, Mark and Dre had the
line of, uh, most people are willing to
endure any amount of chronic pain to
avoid acute pain. Uh, and it feels like
a lot of the cases we're talking about
are just leaning into the acute pain,
whatever it is. It's like, okay, we got
to figure out how to, you know, work
with steel or we got to figure out how
to run the chips in space or like we'll
take some near-term acute pain to
actually solve the bottleneck. And so
that's kind of a unifying theme.
>> I have a high pain threshold.
That's helpful.
>> Solve the bottlenecks.
>> Yes.
>> Um
so
you know one thing I I can say is like
uh
I think the future's going to be very
interesting. Um
and um and as I said the Davos only been
I think it was on the ground for like 3
hours or something. Um
it's better to be it's better to on the
side of optimism and be wrong than on
the side of pessimism and be right uh
for quality of life.
So you know you your your your happiness
will be you you'll be happier if you if
you are on the side of optimism rather
than ingring on the side of pessimism
>> and so I recommend ingring on the side
of optimism.
>> Let's do that.
>> Cool. Yan, thanks for doing this.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. place.
>> All right.
>> Oh, great stamina.
>> Hopefully this encounter is a pain in
the tolerance. [laughter]
>> Hey everybody, I hope you enjoyed that
episode. If you did, the most helpful
thing you can do is just share it with
other people who you think might enjoy
it. It's also helpful if you leave a
rating or a comment on whatever platform
you're listening on. If you're
interested in sponsoring the podcast,
you [music] can reach out at
dwarcash.com/advertise.
Otherwise, I'll see you on the next one.